Content	
"In the current era, social networks are a trend and are used by more and more people, especially young people. Many social networks are active, but their common feature is that users provide their own content, ideas, and share them widely on the internet. Social networks have many benefits, including helping us quickly update news of social life; conveniently and inexpensively connect relationships when we cannot directly meet relatives, friends, colleagues, partners...; improve life skills and understanding in all areas; warn people to avoid many dangers in life, raise vigilance; is a convenient and free tool for business and brand promotion… However, social networks also cause many harms and consequences, the most dangerous of which is stagnation of human life activities (eating, sleeping, resting, working); cause a negative mood when we receive a lot of bad information; take too much time when we surf the web, play games, ""cheat"" without control; creates the risk of exposure to inaccurate, unverified tabloid sources that aim to ""view"", ""like"" sentences. According to a study, 85% of users have accessed social networks at least once a day, and 70% of people admit that they have to go to social networks as soon as they open their phones or computers. There is an opinion that social networks will be more addictive than alcohol, beer and drugs because they have many attractive features and services and are completely free. In addition, social networks are the perfect place for powerful people to express themselves. Excessive self-expression and receiving the support of ""netizens"" for a long time will lead to people confusing real life with the virtual world, paranoia about power, going beyond boundaries. ethics, could face criminal convictions. Vietnam has enough laws and codes of ethics Some people believe that the disturbance on social networks in Vietnam recently is due to our country's lack of laws and specific regulations and sanctions. The reality is not so. On June 12, 2018, after being supported by 87% of the total number of National Assembly deputies present, the Cybersecurity Law 2018 was passed and officially took effect from January 1, 2019. The Law consists of 7 chapters with 43 articles of law that strictly regulate national security protection activities and responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals, in order to ensure the safety and order of the whole society. association in cyberspace. The 2018 Cybersecurity Law has several highlights: Firstly, it is strictly forbidden to post false information. According to Article 8 of this Law, the following acts will be strictly prohibited in the online environment: Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training anti-State people Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon legitimate rights and interests. of other agencies, organizations and individuals; prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Second, foreign enterprises must store user data in Vietnam. According to Article 26.3 of the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, it is required that: Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting and exploiting , analyze and process data about personal information, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for a period of time. time as prescribed by the Government; foreign enterprises must set up representative offices or branches in Vietnam; stop providing network services at the request of the authorities. Third, protect children in cyberspace. Article 29 of the 2018 Cybersecurity Law is considered a very humane regulation, according to which, children have the right to be protected, access information, participate in social activities, have fun and be entertained, and keep their personal secrets. privacy, privacy and other rights when participating in cyberspace; Information system owners, service providers on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace are responsible for controlling information content on the information system or on services provided by such enterprises. provided so as not to cause harm to children, infringe upon children, children's rights; prevent the sharing and deletion of information with content harmful to children, infringing upon children and children's rights; promptly notify and coordinate with the specialized network security force under the Ministry of Public Security to handle. Cybersecurity Law 2018 protects 6 rights people: The right to life, the right to personal freedom; the right to equality before the law and to be protected by the law; the right to be free from interference in your privacy, family, residence or correspondence; the right not to be infringed upon the honor or reputation of the individual; citizens' right to freedom of thought, belief and religion; freedom of speech and expression of citizens. According to Article 9 of the 2018 Cybersecurity Law, violators of the cybersecurity law will, depending on the severity and nature of their violations, be disciplined and administratively handled (compensation if causing damage) or prosecuted for liability. criminal liability in accordance with the law. The Government also issued Decree 15/2020/ND-CP stipulating penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions. According to Decree 15, the maximum fine in the fields of telecommunications, radio frequencies and information technology for individuals is 100 million VND. Acts of storing, transmitting fake and untrue information, slandering, distorting, insulting the reputation of organizations and the honor and dignity of individuals are fined 50-70 million VND. A fine of 50-70 million dong is also applied to acts of providing information that promote customs, superstitions, superstitions, lewdness, debauchery, which are not in line with the nation's fine customs and traditions. For its part, on June 17, 2021, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued Decision No. 847/QD-BTTTT promulgating the Code of Conduct on social networks, in order to create favorable conditions for the healthy development of social networks in Vietnam. Vietnam, ensuring personal freedom, freedom of business, non-discrimination against domestic and foreign service providers, in accordance with standards, practices and international treaties to which Vietnam is a party. family. The Code of Conduct on social networks also helps to raise public awareness about how to behave in the internet environment. What matters is the perception of the user In the social network environment, users can exchange and share information beyond the limitations of space and time. However, at present, many ""netizens"" in Vietnam still have the habit of creating and sharing information in a ""innocent"", somewhat naturalistic way without being aware that they are responsible for their actions. personal information or sharing. Although knowing that using social networks is required to comply with relevant laws such as the Civil Code, the Law on Cybersecurity, etc., it is not always clear to the users of social networks. where is the violation limit. There are complicated issues, making users of social networks unaware of what is allowed and what is taboo. Therefore, users of social networks must really pay attention and be equipped with the necessary knowledge to ensure that they use cyberspace responsibly, do not break the law and violate the Code of Conduct. on social networks. Ordinary network users are well aware of and avoid acts of violating the law on national security, social order and safety (related to the posting and distribution of anti-State information, accepting the ruling role of the Communist Party of Vietnam, providing offensive information to the Party and State's leaders and leaders, abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State and the legitimate rights and interests of the organization. , individual…). However, in fact, some people, due to ignorance and irresponsibility, have been ""trapped"" by bad actors when sharing fabricated information hidden in information that ""seems true"" or mixing events, real characters with fake news, or real news but with slanderous political commentary (especially on YouTube). A common type of violation when using social networks is the violation of the moral rights and reputation of individuals and organizations in the form of unintentionally posting information and pictures of other people or organizations without their consent. allow. The excuse is that the information and images posted are not bad, impermanent or fun, the purpose of posting and sharing is not to smear or attack. However, in fact, such ""innocent"" information may be sensitive to the character or their loved ones and they do not want to share. Social network users in Vietnam also pay little attention to violations of the law related to intellectual property, property ownership, information about bank accounts, about other people's personal property, unknowingly sharing web pages that contain illegal gambling or online gambling advertising content... Social network users in our country are also not highly aware of violations related to ensuring information security in cyberspace. The current use of cyberspace has many risks such as cyber attack, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, paralyzing or destroying information systems; being disrupted the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks; being installed and distributed computer programs harmful to the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks and electronic means; invadedUnauthorized access to computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means... The users themselves, without the necessary knowledge and skills, may unwittingly abet the above-mentioned acts. Young Internet users are often lack of vigilance when sharing information that violates the law, is contrary to fine traditions, customs, civilized and progressive lifestyles, etc., when it is integrated with innocuous information such as advertising and selling bird nets, destructive fishing drugs, aphrodisiacs, websites that look like dating but are actually prostitution. Users of social networks also need to raise their defensive reflexes against clever disguises containing content that distorts history, denies revolutionary achievements, undermines the great unity of the whole nation, insults or discriminates against them. gender, religion, race, region... Thus, the laws, regulations, and codes of conduct on social networks only work when we are wise users who know how to defraud!"	
"Continuing the contact program of the trio of the 1st delegaton, the delegation of the National Assembly of Dong Nai province, this afternoon (June 20), Mr. Vo Van Thuong, Politburo member, Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Chief The Central Propaganda Department and delegates met with voters in Hoa An commune, Ho Chi Minh City. Bien Hoa.


Head of the Central Propaganda Department Vo Van Thuong at the meeting with Dong Nai province on June 20, 2018.
At the meeting, the delegates listened to many opinions and recommendations of voters related to people's livelihood issues, land disputes, social insurance, settlement of regimes and policies for people with meritorious services. The content of the Law on Cybersecurity and the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units continued to be of interest to voters, asking questions to the National Assembly deputies.

Talking to voters, Head of the Central Propaganda Department Vo Van Thuong said that the Law on Cybersecurity had just been passed by the National Assembly with a high number of votes. According to Mr. Vo Van Thuong, information technology is developing strongly to create a virtual environment, although it is virtual, it is real.

Cybersecurity is a very important issue, the introduction of the Cybersecurity Law is to regulate relationships in cyberspace in order to protect national security, social order and safety, rights and interests. of organizations and individuals, handling those who commit acts of violating the law.

“It must be affirmed that there is absolutely no violation of the right to freedom of speech, the right to express opinions and political opinions of citizens. On the contrary, it also creates conditions for the exercise of this right in accordance with the provisions of law. Everyone has the right to express opinions, but we have to follow the law, not that we speak freely and do whatever we want. There are legal provisions to regulate human behavior in the relationship between citizens and citizens, between citizens and society, and between citizens and the State.

Mr. Vo Van Thuong also reiterated the contents related to the draft Law on Special Economic Administrative Units. The head of the Central Propaganda Department affirmed that the examination to study and submit this bill to the National Assembly is in accordance with the Constitution and legal provisions.

The special administrative-economic units, when formed, can solve two goals: Testing mechanisms and policies for the governance of a modern economy, contributing to the improvement of economic institutions. socialist oriented market; create a strong and dynamic development area that can promote other regions and develop a number of modern technology industries.

To achieve this goal, a number of outstanding mechanisms and policies are raised, such as policies on land, taxes, and policies to attract high-quality human resources."	
"The Law contains Chapter 1 - General provisions, Article 8 - Prohibited acts on network security, Section d - False information causing confusion among people, causing damage to economic and social activities society, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals.

Why is the release and spread of false information noticed by Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law as well as similar laws of many countries around the world? That is due to the nature and degree of danger that fake news can cause to national security, the economy as well as safety and social order.

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the US spent 11 years studying 126,000 rumors and fake news on Twitter and found that fake news spread faster than real news, was posted more. The reason is that fake news is ""hotter"" and the popular topic is politics, followed by news related to economics, terrorism, science, natural disasters... The results of the MIT study published in the journal Science (Science) says that fake news is retweeted 70% more than real news; real news took 6 times longer than fake news to reach 1,500 internet users; True news rarely has more than 1,000 shares, while many fake news have up to 100,000 shares.

Internet users are dominated by the sensational nature of fake news, regardless of how much of it is true or not at all. Because we live in an era of information saturation, the more unique, strange, creepy, and violent news is, the more it attracts online users.

Social networks develop like a storm with the connection of hundreds of millions of people on the planet with positive and negative sides. The negative side is evident when fake news is not controlled and the “creator” who spreads fake news is not responsible for his or her actions. Cyberspace is increasingly being used by criminal, terrorist, anti-subversive and extremist groups to cause social disturbances, smear individuals, organizations, and even an entire country. The Chicago Board of Crime Prevention and Control (USA) said that more than 50 criminal groups here use social networks - Facebook, Instagram, Twitter ... to trade drugs and carry out illegal activities. other.

Information from Google technology company shows that in Southeast Asia, including Vietnam, the Internet is developing at the fastest pace on Earth with an online community of more than 400 million people. This also entails ""hidden corners"" from social networks.

The Indonesian Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education has called on the authorities to strictly monitor social networking sites to prevent the spread of extremist ideology among young people, especially students. This comes after police in June 2018 discovered a group of alumni using social media to plan a bomb attack on Aras Mulyadi University.

The Thai government has planned to spend millions of dollars to deploy a system to store and analyze social network data to avoid the spread of malicious fake news on the Internet. In Malaysia, the anti-fake news law imposes a prison sentence of six years for those who spread fake news online.

According to Vietnam's Ministry of Information and Communications, this agency has granted operating licenses to 436 social networks with many users, including Facebook, Youtube, FB Messenger, Zalo, Google+... As for We's 2018 report. are Social said that Facebook has over 55 million members in Vietnam, accounting for 57% of the population.

Vietnam is also ranked 7th out of 10 countries with the largest number of Facebook users in the world with the age group 25-34 making up the majority. The Internet and Social Research Program (VPIS) of the University of Social Sciences and Humanities shows that hate speech by social network users in Vietnam is expressed in defamation and defamation. accounted for 61.7%), slander, fabricated (46.6%), ethnic discrimination (37.01%), sexism (29.03%), disability discrimination (21.76%) ), religious discrimination (15.09%).

A large part of netizens in Vietnam believes that in a virtual environment like a social network, no one is responsible for their statements. Moreover, the handling from the domestic authorities faces legal barriers because most of the social networks have servers located abroad.

In many cases, social media dominates the mainstream media in guiding public opinion in sensitive cases. We have learned a valuable lesson when fake news, distorted news, and misrepresentation of the truth spread on social networks, inciting disgruntled, extremist, ignorant people to rebel and fight like in self-interests. using environmental issues in Formusa Ha Tinh, protesting the Draft Law on Administrative Units-Special Economic Zones, the Law on Cybersecurity...

Media expert Le Quoc Minh (Deputy General Director of Vietnam News Agency) in his presentations to journalists in Vietnam has repeatedly affirmed not to underestimate fake news and must have a sense of prevention early. Fake news has been quietly appearing in Vietnam for a long time, but few people pay attention. Even if fake news becomes ""unsupport global crisis"" after the US presidential election, many people in the country still do not see this as a serious problem.

But it can be affirmed that fake news is really a threat to society. In the world, fake news is rampant and Vietnam is no exception to this trend. We have seen a lot of innocuous, even misleading, content that has been widely distributed by social media users. Among those who share such false information on social networks, there are also reputable, influential figures, even said to be ""more knowledgeable"" than many other users, such as journalists. newspaper.



Deputy General Director of Vietnam News Agency Le Quoc Minh.

According to expert Le Quoc Minh, Internet users must be careful, consider and verify information before ""entering the mind"" or sharing with others information that is spread online, especially about sensitive issues. affecting national security, national economy and social order.

Before the Law on Cybersecurity took effect, the sanctions in the 2017 Penal Code were not enough of a deterrent against slanderous and insulting acts that smeared the image of the country and the reputation of organizations and individuals. There has been a breach of the law.

According to the general perception in the online community in Vietnam, the fact that “false information causes confusion among people…,” in other words, “fake news,” is not a serious violation of the law. , even just the act of ""joking, amusing,"" at most only being ""reminded.""

However, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates very clearly in Article 9 - Handling of violations of the law on cyber security: ""Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, if they are disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability, if causing damage, they must pay compensation in accordance with law.""

Thus, the birth of the Cybersecurity Law is a timely and necessary decision to protect national security, social order and also protect network users themselves, and at the same time build a healthy network environment. safe.

It is time for network users to be highly conscious of their behavior on social networks if they do not want to bear civil and even criminal liability."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity has provisions to protect people from bad and malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses to provide services on telecommunications networks, the internet and aerial value-added services. Cyberspace in Vietnam is responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these subjects.

The law was passed by the National Assembly at its 5th session, and took effect on January 1, 2019.

Protect information systems important to national security

According to the assessment of National Assembly delegate Bui Mau Quan (Hai Duong), in recent years, there have been more and more law violations in cyberspace, causing frustration in society.

These are activities that take advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, propagate, distort, slander and oppose the state. In addition, there are cyber espionage activities, stealing state secrets, infringing on economic management order and social order and safety, which emerge as activities of fraud, theft, gambling, and fishing. violence, online prostitution, theft of personal information, slander, humiliation of others and above all cyber attacks, hijacking, cyber terrorism, cyber war.

However, the handling of these cases is very passive, embarrassing and ineffective because there is no legal corridor that fully, specifically, and clearly regulates violations of the law in space. network.

In addition, there is no strict and strong sanctions to effectively handle acts violating national security, social order and safety, violating the lawful rights and interests of Vietnam. organizations and individuals in cyberspace,"" said Quan.

According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, including about 3,000 phishing attacks (Phishing), 6,500 malware attacks (Malware) and 4,500 interface changing attacks (Deface).

In particular, the number of attacks on the information systems of state agencies with the domain name "".gov.vn"" also reached hundreds. In the first 5 months of 2018, 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks were recorded in Vietnam, in February and March alone, there were more than 1,500 cyberattacks. Insecurity vulnerabilities are increasing, about more than 300% per year, causing the risk of network information security to increase rapidly when entering the Industrial Revolution 4.0.

Meanwhile, according to cybersecurity experts, even when the Law on Cyberinformation Security was promulgated (2015), there has been no legal document regulating information systems important to national security. therefore these systems are not adequately protected. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary, appropriate, and meets the urgent requirements of the current practical situation.

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles that stipulate the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

One of the important contents of the Law lies in Chapter II, which provides for the protection of network security for information systems important to national security. The content of this chapter presents a full range of protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system. In which, defining criteria, related fields, and measures such as network security appraisal, condition assessment, inspection and monitoring of network security and response and remediation of security incidents are outlined. network security for information systems important to national security.

Let people feel secure to operate in cyberspace

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department (Ministry of Public Security), affirmed that, in order to maximize the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, the Law stipulates a full range of measures. measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and handle violations of law, including prevention and handling of online information with propaganda content against the Republic of Vietnam. socialist Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of state secret information, work secrets, and personal information online;...

""This is a solid legal corridor so that people can feel secure to trade, do business or operate in cyberspace,"" emphasized Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan.

Currently, user data in Vietnam online has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage. Even the data has been used for political conspiracies or in violation of the law. Therefore, in order to strictly manage and protect Vietnam's data online, the Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services in cyberspace must operatecollecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing personal data, service user relationship data, data generated by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam .

Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam. Experts said that this regulation is in line with domestic law and international practices, not contrary to treaties to which Vietnam is a signatory, and does not hinder business operations.

Major General Nguyen Minh Duc, Director of the Police Science Institute, the People's Police Academy analyzed that, according to statistics, there are currently 18 countries in the world that require data storage in the country, including: countries such as the US, the Russian Federation, China, etc. Regarding representative offices, according to the law, foreign trade promotion organizations must set up representative offices in Vietnam.

Currently, Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world. In addition, this regulation does not require the storage of all data related to Vietnam in cyberspace, does not require the storage of platform data, but only requires storage for some types of data. specific data, related to personal secrets in case of necessity and data related to national security, because this is the property of citizens, the property of the country needs to be managed and protected. .

Regarding the subjects of application, the regulations do not apply to all agencies and organizations operating in Vietnam's cyberspace, only to a number of service-providing agencies and organizations that are used by them. , taking advantage of or affecting national security.

Standing member of the National Assembly's Committee for Defense and Security Nguyen Thanh Hong assessed that this regulation is necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organizations and businesses.

Citing the fact that in the past time, Facebook has provided Cambridge Analytica with data of 87 million users, including nearly 500,000 user data in Vietnam for political purposes, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong pointed out. It is necessary to take preventive measures to avoid some businesses providing services on social networks, using personal information for illegal purposes, infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations. , enterprise.

Regarding personal information security, the Law stipulates that functional agencies must provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request. With this regulation, many people fear that their personal information will be leaked. However, Major General Nguyen Minh Duc affirmed that there will never be a leak of user information. In fact, since its inception, the specialized forces of the Ministry of Public Security have always performed the task of state management of security and order, including from management of residence, identity identity of citizens; traffic; business lines subject to security and order conditions; entry and exit; ... there has never been a leak of information.

“The guarantee of absolute confidentiality of citizens' personal information is not only a responsibility but also a legal obligation; if it is let loose or leaked, it will be strictly handled according to the provisions of law, depending on the nature, extent and consequences,” emphasized Major General Nguyen Minh Duc."	
"According to the newspaper, this law will create more jobs for Vietnam, as well as bring strong commitments from investors, so it is very beneficial for economic development in the country.

On the issue of the boundary between cybersecurity and privacy, Dhakatribune newspaper disagrees with the opinions that Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law is set up to limit Facebook and Google and will hurt the trust of investors. investment, hindering the development momentum of Vietnam's digital economy.

The article mentioned the case in the US, after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the spreading of anthrax, the country introduced a much stronger system of government surveillance - following the Patriot Act. Internet and Big Data related companies have grown, while the American people live under the active and close supervision of the US Government. Thereby, the newspaper affirms that Vietnam is an independent country and the legislature has the right to better understand data about its citizens to protect national interests.

[Expressing opinions on social networks, how does the Law on Cybersecurity stipulate?]

According to Dhakatribune, Vietnam is simply exercising its right to protect its citizens from any possible manipulation. In addition, the European Union (EU) also has a comprehensive cybersecurity policy, and Facebook and Google are negotiating with the EU to resolve the damage they have suffered.

Regarding the provision of the new Cybersecurity Law, which requires Facebook and Google companies to open offices in Vietnam and comply with the laws of the host country (including storing data in Vietnam and allowing government agencies to access when requested), the newspaper believes that this will create more jobs for Vietnam, as well as bring stronger commitments from investors, and thus, will help Vietnam maintain maintain a stable economic growth rate.

The article welcomes Vietnam's new Cybersecurity Law and believes that this law will really help companies and ancillary services avoid the possibility of being manipulated./"	
"On June 19, in Ho Chi Minh City, President Tran Dai Quang and National Assembly deputies from the 14th National Assembly Delegation Group, Unit 1-Ho Chi Minh City had a meeting with voters in District 1. 1, District 3, District 4 to announce the results of the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly and receive and respond to voters' opinions and recommendations.

After listening to the representative of the National Assembly Delegation presenting the summary report on the 5th session, the XIV National Assembly, voters of districts 1, 3, and 4 expressed their appreciation for the results of the 5th session. , the XIV National Assembly, especially on the question-and-answer program of ministers and branch heads.

The electors raised many opinions around the topic of the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly, which emphasized the requirement to have appropriate management and sanctions solutions for information. Bad and toxic are shared on social networks in order to entice people, especially young people and workers, to engage in mass gathering activities and destroy property.

Voters raised their opinions to propose strict handling of elements that cause trouble, incite people to gather and protest, and publicize the handling on the mass media to increase deterrence.

Voters welcomed the National Assembly to delay the time for consideration and approval of the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, especially with regard to the contents that need to be considered more carefully before submitting it to the National Assembly at the next session. next meeting.

Voters suggested that the National Assembly before its sessions should pay more attention to widely publicizing important law projects so that the people could learn and comment. Even if the bad guys seduce, manipulate, and provoke, they won't get any results.

Voters also expressed their opinions on the fight against corruption, the handling of organizations and individuals involved in corruption cases; The problem of education reform, the disease of achievement in education is generally invisible, creating a substantive assessment of the learning outcomes of students, students...

On behalf of the 14th National Assembly Deputies, Unit 1-Ho Chi Minh City, President Tran Dai Quang would like to thank the voters for their enthusiastic and highly responsible opinions and recommendations on the contents. very important, urgent.

Responding to the opinions of many voters around the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units Van Don, Bac Van Phong, Phu Quoc, President Tran Dai Quang emphasized that this is a major policy of the Party in many tasks. period, with the goal of building a breakthrough institution, outstanding incentives, competitive enough to attract investment with the region and the world, creating a driving force for the development of special zones, spreading to other economic regions. and the whole country, contributing to the rapid and sustainable economic development of the country in association with ensuring independence, sovereignty, defense and security.

The Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units is an important law project aimed at institutionalizing the head of the Party, concretizing the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on special administrative-economic units established by the National Assembly. established association.

State President Tran Dai Quang stated that the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for comments at the 4th session of the XIV National Assembly (October 2017), and was subsequently approved by the Government. receiving and validating it to submit to the National Assembly at the last session.

In the process of drafting the Law, the drafting agency has prepared seriously, meticulously and carefully; receive opinions from ministries, branches, localities, experts in many fields, National Assembly deputies, voters and people; study international experiences - including successes and failures in building special zones - to apply in accordance with the actual conditions of the country.

“The drafting agency conducted studies in 13 countries, surveying the potential advantages of particular policies; consult 26 agencies and organizations to collect public opinions on the Government Portal... However, this is a new, complicated and unprecedented law project; many regulations on mechanisms and policies in the draft Law are breakthrough in both organizational structure and development perspective and orientation in the context of deeper international integration and the international situation. There are many complicated developments in the region,"" President Tran Dai Quang told voters.

State President Tran Dai Quang expressed his agreement with the opinions of the electorate on the aspect that needs to be carefully and carefully studied, and prepared to meet new conditions for submission to the National Assembly for consideration and approval.

Responding to voters' opinions on the Law on Cybersecurity, President Tran Dai Quang shared that he must affirm the progress of the explosive development of science and technology in the world today, especially in the context of The fourth industrial revolution must be utilized and exploited to serve the country's development towards industrialization and modernization.

The development of the Law on Cybersecurity is a matter of concern for many countries in order to take full advantage of the benefits, and at the same time, how to minimize the adverse effects of network technology.

State President Tran Dai Quang stated that the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is to meet the requirements of the Governmenta network security work in the protection of national security, assurance of social order and safety; prevent, fight, and frustrate activities of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, propagate ideological sabotage, sabotage internal affairs, sabotage the great national unity bloc, incite protests, disrupting security in cyberspace by hostile and reactionary forces.

[President Tran Dai Quang meets voters in Ho Chi Minh City]

The Cybersecurity Law also aims to prevent, respond to and overcome consequences of cyberattacks, cyber-terrorism, and cyberwar; preventing, stopping and eliminating agents conducting cyber espionage activities, appropriating state secret information and documents in cyberspace, status of publishing state secret information and documents in space network; protect information systems important to national security...

State President Tran Dai Quang affirmed that the Party and State's viewpoints and guiding ideas on cyber security have been clearly expressed, consistent, systematic and suitable for each period. guiding views and ideas on cybersecurity in the new situation.

The promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is to fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, fundamental rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland; ensure conformity with international practices.

""According to statistics of the United Nations, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. Although the names are different, the main content of the Cybersecurity Laws of the countries is different. are aimed at ensuring information security of businesses and public authorities, as well as better protecting people on the Internet.

Currently, there are 18 countries that require network service providers, especially social networks, to store data in that country. In May 2018, the European Union officially required Facebook to store data in EU countries. This is an urgent requirement to both ensure national security and ensure the legitimate rights and interests of citizens as stipulated in the Constitution,"" said President Tran Dai Quang.

The national plan of the Luat District, the Security Law with the image of 2
President Tran Dai Quang and voters. (Photo: Nhan Sang/VNA)

President Tran Dai Quang emphasized that the Law on Cybersecurity, effective from January 1, 2019, will make an important contribution to creating a legal corridor to meet the requirements of cybersecurity work in protecting security. national security, ensuring social order and safety.

Regarding the recent cases of disturbing security and order, destroying property, and resisting law enforcement officers in some localities, President Tran Dai Quang expressed his agreement with voters' opinions on handling measures. of the authorities; At the same time, he suggested that Party committees, authorities, Fatherland Front and socio-political organizations at all levels, city voters need to strengthen close coordination and be proactive in grasping the situation. to be passive, to be surprised.

Along with that, it is necessary to strengthen propaganda and explain to the people clearly about the guidelines and policies of the Party and State related to the project of the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, so that people can better understand and fully understand the law. more than the guidelines of the Party and State, do not listen to the instigation and agitation of bad elements, do not commit extremist acts, violate the law, resolutely fight and strictly handle hostile subjects. enemies and political opportunities to take advantage of to destroy the Party and State.

Discussing the fight against corruption and the results achieved, President Tran Dai Quang stated: ""The fight against corruption of the Party and State has been carried out for many years. and achieve some very important initial results. Many constituencies expressed their agreement, welcome and support for the decisions and guidelines of the Central and State, in particular, the direction of the Central Steering Committee for Anti-corruption which has directed The consistent policy of the Party and State is to persevere, resolutely and effectively fight in order to prevent and eliminate corruption crimes that are threatening the existence of the regime. .""

""The fight against corruption has achieved some remarkable results, but it has not yet met the requirements of the Party, the State and the people. Therefore, this struggle needs to be done. strongly deployed in the coming time, in the spirit of creating a synchronous and comprehensive deployment from the central to grassroots level to focus on fighting economic crimes, corruption, including big cases, serious corruption, or cases of corruption long known as petty corruption.""

State President Tran Dai Quang also affirmed the Party's and State's consistent stance to fight corruption crimes, but at the same time considered the responsibilities of Party committees and heads of agencies for corruption to occur. and officials of the Party committees and agencies directly involved in corruption cases.

Economic cases must also be considered, xHandle in accordance with the Party's regulations and the State's law on related responsibilities.

State President Tran Dai Quang also shared that the National Assembly discussed the anti-corruption bill amending and supplementing many contents to fight against corruption crimes, including the very important point of opening extended beyond the state sector. Expansion does not affect overall development, but must prevent and combat economic crimes and corruption.

In the near future, a national conference on the fight against corruption will be held. Important viewpoints, policies and solutions will be directed more drastically so that all levels of Party committees, units and localities across the country must continue to step up the fight against corruption in the coming time. more persistently, resolutely and decisively to create a clearer and clearer change, contributing to the building of the Party and political system becoming more and more pure and strong, worthy of the trust of the Party, the State and the Party. people."	
"The new Cybersecurity Law passed by the National Assembly is one of the contents of interest to the Vietnamese and foreign business communities, especially regulations related to the responsibilities of service providers on the Internet. cyberspace.

At the same time, many representatives of authorities and businesses assessed that the Law on Cybersecurity will contribute to creating a healthy and equal business environment.

Do not hinder business activities

It should be affirmed that business activities of enterprises are not regulated by the Law on Cybersecurity, but by other laws such as the Enterprise Law, Commercial Law, Competition Law... Law on Security. Cybersecurity is only regulated if the cyber services provided by these businesses are used for illegal purposes.

[Expressing opinions on social networks, how does the Law on Cybersecurity stipulate?]

Specifically, Clause 8, Article 16 stipulates that enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace must coordinate with competent authorities in handling information with propaganda content. against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management. This is information that violates the law, every country will handle it.

Clause 3, Article 19 stipulates that enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and additional services in cyberspace must coordinate with specialized forces to protect network security to prevent and eliminate acts of cybercrime. network attack. This is a necessary activity, belonging to the responsibility, not related to business activities.

Point b, Clause 2, Article 21 stipulates that telecommunications, Internet, information technology enterprises, service providers on telecommunications networks, the internet, and added services in cyberspace are responsible for coordinating with The Ministry of Public Security in preventing, detecting and handling dangerous situations in cyber security.

A dangerous cyber security situation is an event that occurs in cyberspace when there is a serious act of infringing upon national security, causing particularly serious harm to social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. laws of agencies, organizations and individuals. Therefore, when a dangerous cyber security situation occurs, businesses are responsible for coordinating handling.

Article 26 stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to coordinate with specialized forces to protect network security. in network information security.

Clause 2, Article 29, stipulates the responsibilities of domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in handling information that is harmful to children. in cyberspace.

Article 41 stipulates the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in preventing and handling cyberattacks; warn of the possibility of network insecurity and coordinate and create conditions for the specialized network to protect network security in network security protection activities.

Thus, of the seven regulations related to the responsibilities of service providers in cyberspace, none of them are related to their business activities, start-up activities, import and export. exporting and manufacturing equipment of enterprises. Except for coordinating with the network security protection force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedy, handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to fulfill any other obligations for their business activities.

Facing some distorting propaganda opinions, leading the public to believe that the Law on Cybersecurity will hinder business activities of enterprises, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan (Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, Ministry of Public Security) ) affirms that this law contains no provisions governing the establishment of a business, start-up, investment, purchase, sale, or business of an enterprise; The law also does not require businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sublicense to operate.

Create a healthy business environment

The Law on Cybersecurity is widely considered to be the legal basis for creating a very level playing field. Not only that, many representatives of telecommunications and network service businesses also said that businesses and customers in Vietnam will benefit when the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated.

Discussing this issue, Mr. Nguyen Hoa Binh, President of NextTech Group, said that since the Internet was present in Vietnam, there have been many cases of interference and cyberattacks on State agencies and businesses. by domestic and foreign ""hackers"". With such acts, the current law lacks legal corridors. The introduction of the Cybersecurity Law helps to handle intrusions and attacksIn addition, Mr. Binh believes that Vietnamese enterprises will benefit from this legal corridor.

""There is currently no law regulating domestic and foreign enterprises for many years, creating injustice. For example, foreign enterprises doing business in Vietnam generate a lot of revenue, but are not headquartered in Vietnam. , do not create jobs for domestic workers, do not bring in tax revenue and are less subject to the management of the authorities, meanwhile, domestic enterprises directly create jobs and jobs for people. labor, is under the strict management of the authorities,"" analyzed the President of NextTech Group. Therefore, first of all, the Law will contribute to creating a healthy competitive environment between domestic and foreign enterprises in cyberspace. ""Accordingly, how domestic enterprises are managed, foreign enterprises must also be managed in the same way,"" Mr. Binh said.

In addition, for domestic internet service businesses, when internet data is stored in Vietnam, the cost of transmission lines will be reduced. For domestic businesses operating in commerce and advertising on the internet through Facebook, Google, Youtube..., foreign businesses will have to share tax obligations.

According to Mr. Le Dang Phong, Network Exploitation Department of VNPT-Net Network Infrastructure Corporation, with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, domestic customers will benefit when domestic and foreign businesses will develop, upgrade technical infrastructure; diversifying types as well as improving the quality of services in cyberspace."	
"The new Law on Cybersecurity, passed by the National Assembly, does not prohibit social network participants from voicing and expressing their personal views, but users of social networks must always comply with the Constitution and the law. The Law on Cybersecurity only regulates and handles information that violates the law.

This law is also expected to overcome limitations and shortcomings in the legal corridor that have existed for a long time, contributing to ensuring a healthy and safe cyberspace.

Only process information that violates the law

Expressing personal opinions is an indispensable need of every human being, especially in the era of the Internet, mobile communication devices, and explosive development of social networks. made easier than ever. However, expressing personal views culturally, respecting the community and others, as well as not breaking the law, not everyone can do it.

The fact has shown that, just because of the arbitrary judgment of some individuals on facebook, it caused rumors that the whole crop of local farmers could not be sold. Or, the phenomenon of ""stoned"" on social networks; releasing photos and clips that offend the dignity and honor of others, causing the victim not only to fall into a state of confusion and fear, but even because of the pressure from social networks is too great, has acted dangerously spontaneously, threaten one's own life. In many cases, the ""slashing,"" ""stoned"" bluff of the ""keyboard heroes"" left very dangerous consequences: spreading false information, confusing public opinion; inciting acts of extreme nature, violence leading to social disorder, breaking the law...

However, for a long time, Vietnamese law has not had specific legal corridors to regulate prohibited acts on social networks, including expressing personal opinions that violate the law. This leads to the fact that people do not understand, are not aware of or intentionally perform such acts, and the authorities do not have enough legal tools to handle them.

[Cybersecurity Law: Prohibited information and handling methods]

These shortcomings and limitations in law protection in cyberspace are expected to be overcome when the new Cybersecurity Law is passed by the National Assembly with 86.86% of the delegates agreeing.

First of all, it must be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit social network participants from voicing and expressing their personal views, but social network users must always comply with the Constitution and the law. The Cybersecurity Law only regulates and handles information that violates the law specified in the Penal Code and other relevant legal documents.

Article 15 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically stipulates 5 groups of information in cyberspace that are considered illegal under the provisions of the Penal Code (amended 2017). Group 1: Information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Group 2: Information in cyberspace with content that incites riots, disrupts security or disrupts public order. Group 3: Information on cyberspace with humiliating or slanderous content. Group 4: Information on cyberspace contains content that infringes upon the economic management order. Group 5: Information on cyberspace with untruthful content causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, and causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or enforcers. official duties, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals.

These are all information that may be harmful to national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, which are specified in the Penal Code and need to be handled. in cyberspace. Therefore, people are completely free to express their opinions and personal views, but they must not take advantage of that to distort and oppose the Party and State, incite, manipulate, cause trouble, defame or insult. honor others...

Social ethics always condemn bad words, lies, and untruths. The Penal Code regulates acts of seriously infringing upon the honor, reputation and dignity of organizations and individuals under the crime of humiliation, the crime of slander, etc. The Civil Code stipulates the level of compensation for damage. for acts that offend the honor, dignity and reputation of a legal entity or another subject according to the degree of damage. Depending on the severity of the violation and the evidence collected in accordance with the law, the competent authority will propose handling in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code or the Civil Code.

Strengthen the protection of human rights and citizens' rights

Simultaneously with regulations on prohibited acts and illegal information on cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity strengthens the protection of human rights and citizens' rights in accordance with the Constitution.

Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically stipulates the protection of information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. This is the specific provision of Clause 1, Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution, according to which, “human rights, political citizenship,civil, economic, cultural and social matters are recognized, respected, protected and guaranteed according to the Constitution and the law.”

[Cybersecurity Law does not prohibit citizens from using Facebook, Google]

Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, are responsible for confidentiality. information, user's account."" This is a specific regulation to limit and prevent the sale of user information to service providers or 3rd parties without the consent of the user.

The Law on Cybersecurity also specifically stipulates that the case where the specialized network security force has access to user information is when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security. This provision is consistent with the content of Clause 2, Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution: ""Human rights and citizens' rights can only be restricted according to the provisions of the law in case of necessity for reasons of national defense and security. family, social order, safety, social ethics, community health""."	
"At the press conference to announce the results of the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly taking place on the afternoon of June 15, the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly Nguyen Hanh Phuc and representatives of a number of Committees of the National Assembly attended the meeting. respond to the contents related to the Cybersecurity Law project just passed by the National Assembly.

General Secretary of the National Assembly, Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly Nguyen Hanh Phuc said that regarding the Law on Cybersecurity, the National Assembly has exchanged opinions and feedbacks from experts and voters. On that basis, the National Assembly listened, the drafting agency, and the verifying agency also carefully absorbed this content, from which it voted to pass with a high approval rate. It is important to propagate for people and businesses to understand that the Cybersecurity Law protects the interests of people and businesses.

Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong, Standing Member of the National Assembly's Committee on National Defense and Security, affirmed that during the verification process, the National Assembly Standing Committee was able to correct the draft Law on Cybersecurity and the National Defense and Security Committee. listened to voters, experts, especially representatives of some countries such as the US, Australia, the European Union and Asia-Pacific internet and telecommunications associations... Therefore, Many issues in the Law project submitted by the Government have been absorbed and adjusted to meet the requirements of network security.

Citing Facebook's use of user data to provide businesses with interference in the internal affairs of some countries, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong emphasized, this is not only a problem of Vietnam but also of countries around the world, causing serious problems. global challenge. Before worrying that the Law would affect businesses in the field of providing telecommunications and internet services, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong affirmed that this was absolutely not the case.

“The law creates a legal mechanism to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and businesses at home and abroad,” he said.

Around the information whether Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam or not, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong emphasized that up to now, the official information is that the two big technology corporations of the world There has not been any official response around participating in the development of this law.

“We are also excited that, after the Law project was approved by the National Assembly, the mass media had positive feedback, the content of the bill was widely communicated, achieving high consensus. in people's awareness,"" said Mr. Hong.

Regarding setting up a server in Vietnam and storing data of Vietnamese users in Vietnam, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong pointed out, these are two issues with different opinions. among many countries in the world.

According to the Review Report of the National Defense and Security Commission, currently 18 countries require network service providers, especially social networks, to store data in that country.

In May 2018, the European Union officially required Facebook to store data in European Union countries. This is a necessary requirement, both to protect national security and to ensure the legitimate rights and interests of citizens as stipulated in the Constitution.

“The law passed this time only stores Vietnamese user data, of Vietnamese citizens in Vietnam, but mainly personal information of users. According to the Constitution, this is the property of Vietnamese citizens, authorized by Vietnamese citizens. protection law. Therefore, service providers are responsible for protecting user secrets in Vietnam. Some information saying that hindering the digital industry, industry 4.0 is completely incorrect,” emphasized Mr. Hong.

The General Secretary of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly added that the regulation of setting up a server and storing data in Vietnam is not the first time stipulated in this Law. According to Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP of the Government, organizations and enterprises set up general websites, set up social networks, provide information content services on telecommunications networks. Mobile telecommunications and electronic game service providers must “have at least 1 server system located in Vietnam to meet the inspection, examination, storage and provision of information at the request of regulatory agencies.” competent state and settle customer complaints.”

""This regulation is not new, it is very necessary for the press and the media to explain it so that people can understand it,"" Mr. Phuc emphasized."	
"Director of the Ho Chi Minh Research Institute of Saint Petersburg University of Russia, Professor Vladimir Kolotov has just said that the new cybersecurity law passed in Vietnam is very necessary.

In an interview with Sputnik news agency, Professor Vladimir Kolotov noted that cyberspace is the sovereign domain of any country, no different from territorial sovereignty, airspace sovereignty and territorial waters.

Moreover, cyberspace is a place where many hostile acts are no less dangerous than actual actions in real life.

According to Professor Kolotov, any country has two paths: to establish order, regulate cyber sovereignty by laws, or sell this space or hand it over to outside forces.

Commenting on Southeast Asia, where a number of countries are active sites of terrorist organizations, Professor Kolotov said that cyberspace is where terrorists exchange information with each other.

[Ministry of Foreign Affairs: It is necessary to develop a Law on Cybersecurity]

He warned that many terrorists are even better equipped than some countries in the region in terms of cybersecurity.

Assessing Vietnam's cybersecurity problem, Professor Kolotov said that based on the International Index of Cybersecurity, Vietnam ranks 100th in the world. According to him, the low level of network security has led to unfortunate incidents.

Therefore, Mr. Kolotov said that the opposition to the application of the law on cybersecurity is abetting the country's poor state of security in the field of cybersecurity.

This puts at risk not only the sovereignty of cyberspace, but also the actual sovereignty of the country.

Professor Kolotov also said that the passage of this law does not violate or interfere with free speech. The Law on Cybersecurity covers something completely different, which is related to the infrastructure of the Internet. This is not a matter of information, but of the management of metadata, that is, information about information.

Once the law comes into effect, no one will read the private communications of users of the global computer network, there simply isn't enough memory to do so.

Laws similar to the one recently passed in Vietnam in the context of cyber war being deployed in many countries around the world, with the aim not to infringe on the rights of citizens, but on the contrary. is to protect their own interests. Similar laws have also been passed in Russia and in many countries around the world."	
"On the afternoon of June 14, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' regular press conference, answering reporters' questions about the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Spokesperson Le Thi Thu Hang said that the Law on Cybersecurity Cybersecurity was approved on June 12, 2018 with a high number of votes after many rounds of discussion and collection of opinions widely and transparently of the National Assembly deputies and the people.

The Law on Cybersecurity is consistent with the Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties to which Vietnam is a member. Cybersecurity is an important issue that affects national security.

In recent years, cybersecurity has become a special concern of many countries and international and regional organizations. Attacks targeting the network environment develop rapidly in both form and scale, cross-border nature, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of countries.

[Cybersecurity Law does not prohibit citizens from using Facebook, Google]

Meanwhile, efforts to improve security in the network environment still face many difficulties, especially due to the lack of legal institutions and capacity to ensure network security. Therefore, the development of the Law on Cybersecurity is absolutely necessary in the current context.

Creating breakthroughs for the economy, bringing into play local advantages

In response to a question about the purpose of developing the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, the Spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that over the years, the State of Vietnam has continuously improved its policies, laws and regulations. comprehensively implement many measures to better ensure the people's legitimate rights and interests, promote the cause of national construction and defense, proactively and actively integrate into the world. The draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units is part of the National Assembly's law- and ordinance-making program in 2018.

The draft Law was developed with the aim of creating breakthroughs and new development motivations for the economy, bringing into play local advantages."	
"The National Assembly has just passed the Law on Cybersecurity with 86.86% of the delegates agreeing. The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity comes from the context of the domestic cybersecurity situation and the requirement to protect national security, State secrets, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals, in accordance with international practices and the provisions of the Constitution...

However, in recent times, there has been a lot of inaccurate information on the Internet, social networks said that the Law on Cybersecurity will create ""business barriers,"" ""increase costs for businesses,"" ""sublicenses."" ...

Some dissidents also posted information on social networks and websites with bad, malicious, distorting content, hindering the passage of this law.

It is strictly forbidden to perform illegal acts in cyberspace

Lieutenant General, Associate Professor-Dr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department, Ministry of Public Security, affirmed that the Cybersecurity Law only prohibits illegal acts in cyberspace, there are no regulations. ban Facebook, Google or foreign service providers from operating in Vietnam.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit or prevent citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. This act also has no provisions prohibiting citizens from using social networking services such as Facebook, Google...

The Law on Cybersecurity also does not prohibit citizens from participating in activities in cyberspace or accessing and using information in cyberspace, nor does it prohibit citizens from starting, creating, exchanging, or deploying information on the Internet. their creative ideas in cyberspace.

""People can safely use Facebook, Youtube ... if they do not violate the prohibitions prescribed by law, including expressing their personal views on social networks. However, if they express their personal views, If a person offends another person's dignity, honor, religion, ethnicity, etc., this is a prohibited act. protected by law, any activities are prohibited so that network users do not get into violations,"" said Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan.

Prohibited acts to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. Everyone must be responsible for their actions and statements in cyberspace if such actions or statements infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals.

No control over citizens' personal information

Facing speculations and concerns about the abuse of power by the authorities after the Law on Cybersecurity was passed, Lieutenant General Thuan said, this is a content that many people do not understand, do not read carefully the law and the forces. The enemy takes advantage of this ignorance to incite and confuse public opinion.

A specialized network security agency only supervises illegal acts in cyberspace. In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that if a person performing an official duty on network security abuses his/her power or infringes upon the rights of individuals or organizations, they will also be severely handled.

""So there is certainly no abuse of power here,"" emphasized Lieutenant General Thuan.

[Cybersecurity Law does not hinder the activities of people and businesses]

Lieutenant General Thuan added that the Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request request for user information. Currently, there is a lot of information on the internet that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information and private information to the authorities is incorrect.

No ""sub-license"" is generated

Director of the Cybersecurity Department Hoang Phuoc Thuan affirmed that there is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sublicense to be allowed to operate.

""Certainly, the cybersecurity agency will not issue any sub-licenses arising after the Cybersecurity Law takes effect,"" Lieutenant General Thuan affirmed and added, except for coordinating with the specialized force to handle the situation. violations of the law in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedial and handling of illegal acts, enterprises are not required to comply with the law. any other obligations for its business.

There is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase and sale, and business activities."	
"On June 12, the National Assembly approved the draft Law on Cybersecurity. This is an important bill, which is interested by the National Assembly deputies and many voters.

Talking to reporters on the morning of June 13, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong, Standing member of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee, pointed out that the biggest goal of the Cybersecurity Law just passed by the National Assembly is to build a healthy cyberspace, contributing to economic development, ensuring national defense and security, and protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals, and agencies at home and abroad.

Therefore, in the Law, there are many provisions focusing on prevention, detection and handling of acts of infringing upon cyberspace for the purpose of infringing upon national security, social order and safety, rights and interests. legitimate interests of citizens, agencies and organizations.

Standing member of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong said that during the verification process, the Committee was very interested in how to establish a legal mechanism, in addition to the Law on Information Security. To build a healthy cyber environment, an opportunity for economic development, to protect the legitimate interests of individuals, agencies, organizations and businesses, especially to ensure national security and order social safety in cyberspace.

Standing member of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong affirmed that when the Law was enacted, there was no inspection and control of information systems in cyberspace.

The law only focuses on information systems that are important to national security. It is an important information system on military, defense and security, ensuring the operation of the Government, ministries and branches in the field of socio-economic development.

“This is a matter of great public interest and mixed opinions. Some online forums and in public opinion are confused about the fact that this bill, when passed by the National Assembly, will infringe on the freedom of individuals, organizations and businesses,"" said Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong. .

Regarding the issue of setting up a server to store user data in Vietnam, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong emphasized, the Law on Cybersecurity, when passed, no longer has this provision.

In addition, the regulation of setting up servers and storing data in Vietnam is not the first time stipulated in this Law. Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP of the Government stipulating organizations and enterprises to set up general websites, establish social networks, and provide information content services on telecommunications networks. Mobile, video game service providers must “have at least 1 server system located in Vietnam to meet the inspection, examination, storage and provision of information at the request of the state management agency. competent country and resolve customer complaints.”

[Cybersecurity Law does not hinder the activities of people and businesses]

However, on the basis of receiving opinions of National Assembly deputies, voters, political organizations, professional organizations, experts and scientists, the draft Law has removed the regulation on setting up servers in Vietnam. .

Regarding the storage of user data in Vietnam, Standing Member of the National Assembly's Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong assessed that this regulation is necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals. , organization, enterprise.

Citing the fact that in the past time, Facebook has provided Cambridge Analytica Company with data of 87 million users, including nearly 500,000 user data in Vietnam for political purposes, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong pointed out. It is clear that there should be preventive measures to avoid some businesses providing services on social networks, using personal information for illegal purposes, infringing on the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations. organizations, enterprises.

There is an opinion that the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity will affect the development of businesses in the field of information technology, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong said that this statement is incorrect.

The goal of the Law is to detect violations of the law on network security, have solutions to prevent intrusion and attack on information systems of the State, enterprises, even personal information on websites. Social Network.

Recently, a number of foreign organizations and individuals attacked the network system to spread malicious virus programs, seize data of individuals and organizations, and require individuals and organizations to pay to restore their files. data.

“This is a clear illustration that the Law on Cybersecurity was born, contributing to ensuring the safety of important national security information systems, establishing a mechanism to protect users when something goes wrong. out”, said Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong."	
"This is a new field with far-reaching impacts on all aspects of social life. The Law has been carefully prepared and formulated, consulting agencies, ministries, branches, mass organizations, social organizations and the masses. The people, through many times of receiving, correcting and explaining, to basically solve the problems posed for the work of ensuring network security in the current situation.

The risk of network information insecurity is increasing rapidly

Regarding the cyber security situation in Vietnam, Major General Nguyen Minh Duc, Director of the Institute of Police Science - People's Police Academy said, according to a report of the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center (VNCERT). According to the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, including about 3,000 phishing attacks, 6,500 software attacks. malicious (Malware) and 4,500 interface change attacks (Deface). In particular, the number of attacks on the information systems of state agencies with the domain name "".gov.vn"" also reached hundreds.

In 2017, the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users reached 12,300 billion VND (540 million USD), far exceeding the 10,400 billion VND mark of 2016 and has reached a record in recent years.

In the first 5 months of 2018, 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks were recorded in Vietnam, in February and March alone, there were more than 1,500 cyberattacks; Besides, with about 637,400 controlled computers in infected computer networks (ghost computer networks - botnets), Vietnam ranks fourth in the Top 10 countries controlled by ghost computer networks. .

Insecurity vulnerabilities are increasing, about more than 300% per year, causing the risk of network information security to increase rapidly when entering the Industrial Revolution 4.0.

In the face of such permanent cyber attacks against Vietnam, the specialized cyber security forces of the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense and other Vietnamese authorities have focused all technical solutions on as well as people to prevent and combat cyber attacks, but it is difficult to achieve the highest efficiency.

According to cybersecurity experts, current protection is not enough to deal with modern cyber attacks because different implementations are often independent of each other; The lack of a clear legal framework creates a responsibility to link the implementation measures of the Vietnamese authorities with each other, especially with other countries.

Most countries have effective cyber-attack prevention systems, in addition to technical solutions, people also have a specific legal corridor.

""That said, it is only possible to effectively prevent cyberattacks, in addition to technical measures, people must have a specific and clear legal system that is eligible to deploy legal and legal measures. international cooperation"" - Major General Nguyen Minh Duc emphasized.

In fact, in the face of increasingly modern and sophisticated targeted cyber attacks, only one mistake of agencies, organizations, businesses and users can bear very heavy consequences, so most of them proactively propose a specialized force to protect network security to help check from the beginning, as well as regularly, their equipment and network system, so that they can feel secure in production and business.

A part is afraid of being inspected and supervised because they do not understand the importance and effective help from the agency in charge of protecting network security, or there may be many shady business cases. Due to lack of transparency, fear of being checked.

The provisions in Chapter 2 of the Draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulate that the agency in charge of cyber security protection of the Ministry of Public Security must be responsible for protecting national security and social order and safety in cyberspace.

Before the draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulating information systems important for national security, there was no legal document on this content, even when the Law on Cyberinformation Security was promulgated.

Therefore, information systems important to national security are not protected commensurate with their importance.

[Cybersecurity Law: Prohibited information and handling methods]

Not obstructing the activities of people and businesses

Major General Nguyen Minh Duc said that the regulation ""Stored in Vietnam for personal information of users in Vietnam and important data related to national security; setting up a head office or representative office in Vietnam” at point d, clause 2, Article 26 is feasible, in accordance with domestic laws, international practices, not contrary to the treaties to which we have acceded, nor hinder business operations.

Major General Nguyen Minh Duc gave 5 factors to prove the above argument.

Firstly, about storing important national data in the country, according to statistics, there are currently 18 countries in the world that require data storage in the country, such as the US, Canada, the Russian Federation, France, etc. Germany, China, Australia, Indonesia, Greece, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Turkey, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil.

As such is the international practice, we are not the first country to apply this regulation.Secondly, through reviewing documents of commitments to join WTO such as General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT 1994), General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), Agreement on Aspects related to trade of intellectual property rights (TRIPS); At the same time, reviewing the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), I found that these documents all contain provisions on security exceptions, allowing respect and protection of national security in Vietnam. highest level.

The most objective example is that the 18 countries mentioned above have all joined the WTO, which means they do not violate the WTO commitments they have just made. Thus, it can be affirmed that we do not violate international commitments.

Third, about representative offices, according to the provisions of our country's law on commerce, foreign trade promotion organizations must set up representative offices in Vietnam according to the 2005 Commercial Law, the Law on Foreign Trade Management, and the Law on Foreign Trade. 2017 and the guiding documents, directly is the Government's Decree 28/2018/ND-CP detailing the Law on Foreign Trade Management on a number of measures to develop foreign trade.

Currently, Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world.

Particularly in Southeast Asia, Google, Facebook have opened representative offices in Singapore (Google and Facebook both have data storage servers in this country), Malaysia, Indonesia (Facebook alone has set up data centers according to the law). Indonesian law 2014).

""This is in accordance with domestic law. If the above businesses are hindered and affect their business interests, they will certainly not set up nearly 100 representative offices in countries around the world as mentioned before. On the other hand, the regulation of setting up representative offices will create an equal business environment because domestic enterprises are subject to many legal regulations right from the time of registration as well as during operation. while foreign enterprises do not bear any obligations"" - Major General Duc explained.

Fourth, the above regulation is focused and focused. Regarding data, this regulation does not require the storage of all data related to Vietnam in cyberspace, does not require the storage of platform data, but only requires storage for some data. specific types of data, related to personal secrets in case of necessity, and data related to national security, because this is the property of citizens, the property of the country needs to be managed and protected. guard.

Regarding the subjects of application, the regulations do not apply to all agencies and organizations operating in Vietnam's cyberspace, only to a number of service-providing agencies and organizations that are used by them. , taking advantage of or affecting national security.

In terms of management, data management is done through data centers in Vietnam and by management tools. When foreign agencies and organizations provide services in cyberspace and own an information system in Vietnam that stores data, Vietnamese authorities will coordinate with agencies and organizations providing services in cyberspace. services in cyberspace develop tools for managing and monitoring the use of these types of data. The Government will specify this content.

Fifth, in practice, the failure to manage user data and important national data has been affecting national interests and security.

Regarding national security and crime prevention, at present, hostile, reactionary, oppositional forces and criminals are increasingly using cyberspace to infringe on national security, social order and safety. while the authorities face many difficulties in investigating, verifying, tracing and handling these violations because all data is located abroad; Foreign enterprises often lack goodwill, do not cooperate, do not provide or provide relevant information slowly, leading to unsecured legal handling.

In terms of national interests, user data is an asset of infinite exploitation value, an input material for many economic activities with high profit value, while foreign agencies and organizations If we earn trillions of dong a year from Vietnamese user data, our country is losing tax revenue. Regulations on data storage and representative offices will contribute to removing the above difficulties.

Regarding the privacy of personal information, the draft stipulates that authorities must provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request. Many people fear that their personal information will be leaked.

""However, I can confirm that there will never be any leakage of user information. In fact, since its inception, the specialized forces of the Ministry of Public Security have always performed the task of house management. in terms of security and order, including from residence management, citizen identification; traffic; business lines subject to security and order conditions; entry and exit; ... never there is a leak of information.

The guarantee of absolute confidentiality of personal informationof citizens is not only a responsibility but also a legal obligation; if it is let loose, it will be strictly handled according to the provisions of law, depending on the nature, extent and consequences"" - Major General Nguyen Minh Duc emphasized."	
"On the morning of June 12, with 423 delegates approving (equivalent to 86.86% of the votes), the National Assembly voted to approve the draft Law on Cybersecurity at its 5th session.

According to the voting results, there were 466 delegates participating in the vote (accounting for 95.69%), of which 423 members approved (accounting for 86.86%), 15 delegates disagreed (3.08%) and 28 delegates voted. non-voting vote (5.75%)

The National Assembly also conducted a separate vote on Article 10 on important information systems for national security and Article 26 on ensuring information security in cyberspace.

As a result of separate voting on two articles, Article 10 had 423 delegates in favor (accounting for 86.86%), 20 deputies disagreeing (4.11%) and 15 deputies not voting (3.08%). . Article 26 has 398 delegates in favor (accounting for 81.72%), 41 deputies against (8.42%) and 24 deputies not voting (4.93%).

Before voting for approval, Member of the National Assembly Standing Committee, Chairman of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet presented a report explaining, absorbing and revising the draft Law on Cybersecurity.

Learn how to clear the sound through Security Law with a picture of him 2
Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security Vo Trong Viet presented a report explaining, absorbing and revising the draft Law on Cybersecurity. (Photo: Trong Duc - VNA)

Mr. Vo Trong Viet said that the Law on Cybersecurity broadens the scope of regulation to suit the situation of activities that infringe on social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace. complicated developments today. At the same time, supplement the necessary legal basis to ensure the functional forces in preventing and fighting these activities.

“There is a relationship between national defense and security and social order and safety, which can, to a certain extent, transform each other, so it is difficult to separate and clearly delineate, especially especially In the current context of information technology, cyberspace develops,"" said Mr. Vo Trong Viet.

As for the regulations on ensuring information security in cyberspace, some comments are still concerned that these regulations are not feasible, increasing the costs of foreign enterprises, causing difficulties for foreign investors. activities of accessing information and contrary to international commitments to which Vietnam is a member.

To further clarify the basis for these regulations, Mr. Vo Trong Viet said that the basic agreements of the WTO (GATT Agreement, GATS Agreement) and the CPTPP Agreement have exceptions on security. Therefore, the application of security exceptions is absolutely necessary to protect the interests of the people and national security.

Learn how to clear the sound through Security Law with the image of 3
National Assembly deputies press the button to pass the Law on Cybersecurity. (Photo: Duong Giang - VNA)

Accordingly, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on the telecommunications network, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to store in Vietnam their data. importance of service users in Vietnam; at the same time, it is required that foreign enterprises participating in these activities have their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam. To date, more than 18 WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France) have mandated that data be stored within their national territory.

Currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong and Singapore. If the provisions of this Law come into effect, it is possible for these businesses to move the computing cloud (virtual server) to Vietnam to open a data center in Vietnam,” said Mr. Vo Trong Viet. .

Mr. Vo Trong Viet affirmed that the case of a data center located in Vietnam, although it increases the cost of businesses, is a necessary regulation to meet the requirements of our country's network security. On the other hand, business activities of foreign enterprises as well as activities of using services of domestic agencies, organizations and individuals also have more advantages; if there is an interruption, it will be handled faster; the authorities will better manage the business activities of these enterprises; When there is a breach of network security, the coordination of information handling and violations will be more effective and feasible.

Based on the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law and the actual situation, the Government stipulates a specific scope of businesses that must apply this regulation, so it will basically not obstruct the flow of data, not affect the data flow. normal operations of other agencies, organizations and enterprises, including start-up enterprises.

Learn how to clear the sound through Security Law with the image of 4
The National Assembly voted to pass the Law on Cybersecurity with an approval rate of 86.86%.
(Photo: Duong Giang - VNA)

Mr. Vo Trong Viet added that the regulation of setting up a server and storing data in Vietnam is not the first time stipulated in this Law. According to Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP of the Government, organizations and businesses set up information pagesSynthesized electronics, setting up social networks, providing information content services on mobile telecommunications networks, providing video game services must have ""at least 01 server system located in Vietnam to meet the inspection, examination, storage and provision of information at the request of competent state management agencies and settlement of customer complaints.”"	
"On this occasion, the VNA reporter interviewed Lieutenant General, Associate Professor-Dr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department, Ministry of Public Security, Standing Committee of the Drafting Committee, Head of the Editorial Team to develop the Security Law. network to clarify information related to this draft Law.

Not required to store all data

- Lieutenant General, currently, the situation of cyber security is complicated, a series of cases related to cyber attacks and cyber security have caused serious consequences which have been mentioned by the press recently. Can you tell us the necessity of building and promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity in the context of our country?

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: Recently, the situation of cyber security in the world and in Vietnam has been complicated. Every year, our country's information system suffers from tens of thousands of attacks. Fabricated information, mixed truth and falsehood, slander, libel, insult, incitement to violence ... are common in cyberspace, especially social networks.

Cyberspace becomes a ""safe haven"" for criminals and law-breakers; Cybercrime, especially organized crime, has complicated developments, especially gambling activities, gambling organizations, frauds to appropriate property, trade in counterfeit and banned goods... One of the main reasons This is due to the lack of a legal framework.

[Handling acts of violating national security in cyberspace]

The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity derives from the urgent requirements of the domestic cybersecurity situation, the protection of national security, state secrets, social order and safety, the rights and interests of the nation. legitimate interests of organizations and individuals; overcome the shortcomings, inadequacies and limitations of the state management of network security and information security; further enhance the management role of functional ministries and branches in ensuring network security and information security; at the same time, fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cyber security, ensuring conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, fundamental rights of citizens and protection of the Internet. Defending the Fatherland, ensuring conformity with international practices, when many countries around the world have promulgated the Law on Cybersecurity.

- Lieutenant General, at present, cyberspace is present in all areas of social life, including commercial activities. It is known that in the draft there are specific regulations on the requirements for storing user data and important data in the country. So please tell me, who will be subject to this regulation and what data will be stored in the country?

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: We all know that the requirement to store important data in the country has been regulated by many countries, such as the US, Canada, the Russian Federation, Germany, China, Indonesia, etc. Greece, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Turkey, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil...

According to public information, on May 25, the European Union's Personal Data Protection Regulation officially came into effect, allowing citizens to control their personal data when participating in forums. forums, social networks in the direction of being able to look up, change and delete their personal information; Service providers must disclose to customers how personal information is used, commit not to transfer personal data to third parties, if violations can be fined up to 20 million euros or 40 million euros. % of the offending company's global sales. This shows that regulations like the current draft Law on Cybersecurity are appropriate and progressive.

Please confirm that the draft Law on Cybersecurity does not stipulate that all agencies and organizations must comply with this provision and it is not mandatory to store all data. The Government will detail the types of agencies, organizations and types of data that must be complied with, on the basis of requirements on security protection, public order, culture, ethics, fine customs and traditions of Vietnam. Male.

Compulsory storage of certain types of data in the territory of Vietnam

- Recently, there are many opinions that the above data storage regulations are not consistent with the provisions of international commitments to which Vietnam has joined, hindering the international data circulation or affect domestic GDP. What is your opinion on this matter?

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: When developing this regulation, the Drafting Committee carefully reviewed the international commitments and treaties to which Vietnam is a member, including the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the WTO. Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Therefore, I affirm that the regulations on data storage in the draft Cybersecurity Law are not contrary to, do not violate commitments and do not hinder Vietnam's implementation of international commitments.

We all know that bilateral or multilateral commitments have exceptions for security, public order, culture and public health. This means that the interests of the countries participating in the commitments are always upheld and respected, without any commitments forcing us to sacrifice these interests. We also have precedents from a number of participating countriesWTO has similar regulations, they are regulated ie not violating the scope of WTO commitments.

Regarding the idea that this regulation impedes the international circulation of data, I can confirm that there are no obstacles at all. Cloud computing technology allows data access from anywhere, no matter where it is stored, Vietnam or the US. The draft Law on Cybersecurity only stipulates the mandatory storage of certain types of data in the territory of Vietnam, but does not prevent access to the data.

Recently, some individuals cited data from the European Center for Political Economy Research (ECIPE) saying that the ""localization of data"" will cause Vietnam's GDP to decrease by 1.7% and foreign investment. other than a decrease of 3.1%.

However, they ""forgot"" to mention that this metric was extracted from ECIPE's March 2014 report titled ""The costs of data localization: Friendly fire on economic recovery"". data localization: Action that undermines economic recovery”) and is based on the most negative scenarios. This report also mentions and makes similar forecasts for the European Union, China, India, Korea, Indonesia, Brazil.

We all know reality has proven otherwise. For example, in 2015, one year after ECIPE made the above statement, Vietnam's GDP grew at the highest rate in 5 years and now we are still maintaining very impressive growth. Currently, the European Union and the above country are increasingly tightening the management of personal data. Therefore, the above forecast is incorrect and it is intentional to include the above data with incomplete citation.

- Thus, when having a thorough and scientific approach to the provisions in the draft, it will be found that the regulations requiring data storage are consistent with domestic laws, international practices, not contrary to treaties to which we join, nor hinder the operation of the business. However, there are also opinions that this regulation will not be feasible when currently, businesses use cloud computing and virtualized servers to store data. What is your opinion on this matter?

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: As I just mentioned, cloud computing technology allows data to be transferred no matter where it is stored. Therefore, data storage regulations such as the draft Law on Cybersecurity are completely feasible in terms of technology and do not cause any obstacles. Similar regulations have also been applied in many countries.

In fact, according to the data we know, Google and Facebook have set up nearly 2,000 servers in our country to increase service quality. This shows that data storage as stated is not only feasible in terms of technology, but also helps to increase connection quality and service quality.

Not intended to cause difficulties for businesses

- Lieutenant General, currently there is an opinion that all businesses doing business in cyberspace related to Vietnam must set up representative offices in Vietnam, causing difficulties for businesses in terms of information. costs and procedures. Could you please give your opinion on this matter?

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: We understand that this is a statement that comes from legitimate concerns of businesses. We are well aware of the importance of foreign businesses when participating in the Vietnamese market. The draft Law on Cybersecurity itself is promulgated with the goal of protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, including foreign businesses. Therefore, the provisions in the draft Law on Cybersecurity are not intended to cause difficulties for businesses and are not intended to compel all businesses.

However, according to our country's laws, including the 2005 Commercial Law, the 2017 Law on Foreign Trade Management and guiding documents, stipulates that foreign trade promotion organizations must set up representative offices. represented in Vietnam. We all see the fact that businesses providing cross-border services such as Google and Facebook are having lucrative business activities in Vietnam.

As far as I know, Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world. In Southeast Asia, Google and Facebook have opened representative offices in Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia. Why would Google and Facebook do this if it weren't for the fact that setting up a representative office is convenient for businesses.

One fact we need to recognize is that our organizations and businesses are subject to a lot of adjustments from the law when operating in electronic media, websites, social networks, etc. time, take responsibility for our security, public order, culture, social ethics, fine customs and traditions. However, businesses providing services across the border into Vietnam are not subject to any constraints. Therefore, the registration of foreign enterprises as legal entities in Vietnam will help us create a fair and responsible business environment.

However, due to the international commitments we are involved in, the draft Cybersecurity Law does not mandate that all businessesTo set up a representative office that will base on the requirements of national security protection, social order and safety and the Government will have detailed regulations.

On this occasion, we would also like to thank the generous comments of the people, business community and international friends who have helped us to complete the draft Law on Cybersecurity through nearly 30 revisions. We look forward to continuing to receive comments and hope that people, organizations, and businesses at home and abroad will make efforts and join hands with Vietnamese authorities to protect the security of the country. network security, contributing to building a safe and healthy cyberspace, making an important contribution to the socio-economic development of each country and the whole world."	
"On May 29, at the morning session, the National Assembly deputies worked in the hall. In the afternoon, the delegates discussed at the group about the Vietnam Coast Guard Law project and the Amnesty Law project (amended).

In the morning session, the National Assembly discussed in the hall the draft Law on Cybersecurity. The bill was first commented on at the 4th session at the end of 2017.

The majority of delegates agreed on the necessity of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity in the current context, in order to ensure national security and social order and safety in cyberspace. However, many delegates had mixed opinions on whether foreign network enterprises should set up a representative office in Vietnam.

Regarding ensuring information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam (Clause 4, Article 34 of the draft Law submitted by the Government), many opinions agree with the regulation. The law requires foreign enterprises, when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam, to set up a representative agency or server to manage Vietnamese user data in Vietnam.

Some opinions disagree with this regulation because they think that it is difficult to ensure the feasibility, is not true to reality, increases the costs of foreign enterprises, makes it difficult for activities to access information and is contrary to reality. With international commitments to which Vietnam is a member... it is recommended to study other management methods accordingly.

In this regard, Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security Vo Trong Viet presented a report on explaining, absorbing and revising the Cybersecurity Law project, saying that after considering many aspects, and at the same time participating in Referring to similar provisions of the laws of some countries that are members of the WTO, on the requirement to set up a data management server in the territory of Vietnam, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed not to stipulate this content in this article. draft Law to ensure the feasibility and convenience for the operation of foreign enterprises when providing services to Vietnam.

[Handling acts of violating national security in cyberspace]

Regarding the requirement to set up a representative agency and store Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory, the National Assembly Standing Committee proposed to retain this content in the draft Law and combine it with similar provisions for domestic enterprises to amend into Clause 2, Article 26 of the revised draft Law.

Such regulation will meet the requirements of protecting national sovereignty over electronic data and handling situations and acts in cyberspace that infringe upon national security, social order and safety. Besides, it is consistent with the international treaties to which Vietnam is a member, in accordance with the 2013 Constitution and meets the requirements of the current practical situation. Such regulation also creates a legal corridor for functional ministries and branches to strictly manage the activities of enterprises providing cross-border services into Vietnam; ensure payment sovereignty, combat loss of tax collection; ensure the fairness between foreign enterprises and domestic enterprises.

Giving opinions at the discussion groups, the delegates agreed that the amendments and supplements to the Law on Amnesty in 2007 are necessary to ensure compliance with the 2013 Constitution, with the provisions of the laws related to private equity. New criminal law was approved by the National Assembly and solved problems and difficulties in the work of amnesty consideration over the past time.

Regarding the Coast Guard Law project, delegates agreed that the promulgation of the law is necessary, in order to institutionalize the Party's guidelines and policies, and relevant provisions of the 2013 Constitution on strengthening the potential of the Coast Guard. national defense and security, and building forces at sea, overcoming obstacles and inadequacies in the implementation of the Ordinance on the Vietnam Coast Guard.

According to delegates, the bill was raised from the Ordinance on the Coast Guard, but with significant additions in content, besides, the delegates asked the drafting committee to continue to review the current regulations. , including sub-law documents to provide more comprehensive, comprehensive and complete regulations."	
"On the morning of May 29, the National Assembly deputies worked in the hall, listening to the Government's report and the verification report of the National Assembly's Committee for Culture, Education, Youth, Adolescents and Children on the project. Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Education; discussed some contents with different opinions of the Cybersecurity Law project.

Creating positive changes in the education system

The Government's report on the draft Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Education Law presented by the Minister of Education and Training Phung Xuan Nha clearly states: After 12 years of implementation, the Education Law has made an important contribution. focused on the development of education and training in Vietnam in the period of international integration, creating many positive changes in the national education system. However, up to now, the Law has revealed a number of limitations and inadequacies, becoming bottlenecks and bottlenecks in the process of implementing fundamental and comprehensive reform of education and training.

The development of the Law project aims to promote the achieved results, overcome the limitations and inadequacies in the legal adjustment of education and training over the past time to solve new problems arising in the development of education and training. developing education and training, contributing to raising people's intellectual level, developing human resources, fostering talents to meet the requirements of national construction and defense and international integration.

The Law on Amending and Supplementing 36 Articles; added 3 new things; to annul 10 articles, in accordance with Resolution No. 34/2017/QH14 of the National Assembly on the National Assembly's Law and Ordinance Development Program and the current practical situation.

The Law Project focuses on a number of contents such as: Policy on tuition fees for students, pedagogical students; standard qualifications of teachers; professional training for teachers; on education quality accreditation and foreign diploma recognition; investment and financial resources for education; responsibility of family, school, society...

[3 Law projects will be discussed by the National Assembly on May 29]

Approving the need and goal of amending and supplementing the Law on Education, the National Assembly's Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Adolescents and Children emphasized the study of comprehensive revision of the Education Law in order to implement realizing the goal of creating a sufficient legal basis for educational development in accordance with the Resolutions of the Party, the 2013 Constitution and the requirements of practice; overcome the limitations and shortcomings stated in the Report; ensure consistency and synchronization with the relevant legal system.

At the same time, the Committee for Culture, Education, Youth, Adolescents and Children of the National Assembly proposed the Drafting Committee to continue to review, summarize and evaluate the implementation of the policies; research and consult affected subjects and relevant management agencies to develop appropriate and feasible policies and regulations of the Education Law.

Preventing and responding to cyber security threats

Commenting on the draft Law on Cybersecurity, the majority of delegates agreed with the necessity of promulgating the Law, because many recent events related to network security not only have a small impact on a single network. some agencies, organizations and individuals, but also affect the economy and politics of the country; many cases infringing on the rights and interests of individuals, national interests...

Delegate Cao Dinh Thuong (Phu Tho) analyzed the current situation, the situation taking place in cyberspace, which has set an urgent requirement for cybersecurity work in protecting national security, ensuring order and safety. society. Therefore, along with the process of international integration, information technology development, especially the 4.0 technology revolution, the promulgation of the Cybersecurity Law will contribute to the prevention and response to threats. network security; overcome the existence and limitations related to network security protection.

Delegate Bui Mau Quan (Hai Duong) cited the fact that in recent years, there have been more and more illegal activities in cyberspace, causing frustration in society. These are activities that take advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security and social order and safety, such as propaganda, misrepresentation, slander against the State, cyber espionage activities to steal state secrets. , infringing upon economic interests, social order and safety, in which, emerging activities of fraud, theft, gambling, betting and online prostitution; stealing personal information, slandering, humiliating others online and higher is cyber attack, hijacking, cyber terrorism, cyber war...

The above problems are extremely pressing and painful situations that have been happening, but the handling is very passive, embarrassing, and ineffective because the legal system of our country does not have a legal corridor. fully manage specific and clear regulations on illegal acts in cyberspace.

In addition, the promulgation of the Law also contributes to the fight to prevent and effectively handle violations of the law, national security and social order and safety, as well as violations of the law. violate the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace.

Delegate Cao Dinh Thuong (Phu Tho) agrees with the addition of policies on network securitysuch as: policy to protect national cyber infrastructure; protect information systems important for national security; building a specialized force for network security protection; prioritizing investment and allocating funding.

The building of a specialized force to protect network security is very necessary and especially important to prevent and protect cyberspace against the risks of targeted attacks.

Delegates suggested that it be necessary to specify conditions and criteria for recruitment of people into the specialized force for cybersecurity protection; specific tasks of the cybersecurity force in order to strictly manage and avoid using expertise and expertise in activities that infringe upon the interests, security and order of the State; minimize the abuse of positions, powers and professional qualifications to commit violations such as the case of using the Internet to appropriate property, organizing gambling, illegally buying and selling invoices and Money laundering in Phu Tho province and some provinces and cities is being handled.

Protecting children in the online environment

As for the regulation on the protection of children in the online environment, delegate Nguyen Thanh Cong (Ninh Binh) said that the Law should remove the provisions in Article 30 on this content, because basically these contents have been approved. clearly defined in the Law on Children 2016 (Article 33 provides for the right to access information; Article 54 provides for the protection of children in the online environment).

This content is also not really related to the topic of cyber security that the Law project regulates. Keeping the provisions of Article 30 of the Law project will create an overlap in the scope of regulation, causing overlapping of state management competence among the ministries and branches concerned with the protection of children in the air. cyberspace.

Deputies Ta Van Ha (Bac Lieu), Nguyen Van Canh (Binh Dinh) said that there should be specific regulations on the protection of children in cyberspace in the Law project.

Delegate Ta Van Ha (Bac Lieu) said that the Law project should regulate the right to protect children; responsibility of families and caregivers to participate in child protection; responsibilities of schools, educational institutions, agencies, organizations and individuals providing cyber security services; organizations and individuals participating in online activities, state management agencies and cybersecurity protection agencies; At the same time, there should be regulations on children's obligations when participating in cyberspace.

Delegate Nguyen Van Canh said that children's use of the Internet is always a concern of every family, school and society. Currently, most of the internet access in families, at Internet business establishments does not distinguish between adults and children.

Allowing children to freely participate in the online environment, exchange information with objects they do not know, visit dark websites, online games with inappropriate content, without family supervision teachers, will greatly influence the thoughts and actions of the children. Failure to control children's participation in the online environment is no different from allowing them to have a virtual and deviant life, leading to a part of children having a lifestyle contrary to the nation's moral and cultural traditions. . The use of cyberspace is seen as one more way to achieve development goals.

However, adults have the ability to use appropriate content and be responsible for their own choices, and children, whether in real life or in the online environment, also need the guidance and protection of the Government. water, school, family. Therefore, the Law project needs to have a specific content on protecting children in cyberspace, so that they can have a safe and play environment appropriate to their age.

""If the National Assembly agrees to include this content in the bill, this Law will supplement the provisions of the ministries: Information and Communication, Education and Training, Culture, Sports and Tourism, Labor- Invalids and Social Affairs research to develop an integrated electronic portal specifically for children to use at families, schools, and Internet service providers so that children can absorb information about Information has been built selectively, linked with information sources for learning, playing, sex education, age-appropriate life skills, to have a generation of children. comprehensive development of mind-body-beauty,"" proposed delegate Nguyen Van Canh.

Enhancing education and fostering knowledge about network security

Regarding regulations on education and fostering of knowledge about cybersecurity, delegate Tran Thi Dung (Dien Bien) said that the regulation ""cybersecurity education is included in the main course of defense education"". , security in the school; The training of cybersecurity knowledge, which is included in the framework program for fostering national defense and security knowledge under the provisions of the Law on National Defense and Security Education, is not appropriate and should be considered. Because, it is not advisable to ""hard"" regulate cybersecurity education in the main school subject, because it can make it difficult for the policy of reducing program load in high schools today.

This addition will have a direct impact on the arrangement and arrangement of teachers, making it difficult to ensure the teaching of this content, creating pressure.about human resources, financial for schools.

In the Law project submitted by the Government to the National Assembly at the 4th Session, it is only limited to training in cybersecurity as a part of the education and training program at universities, colleges and the equivalent. The government has not yet assessed the impact of this policy, so if necessary, only ""cybersecurity education is the content of the national defense and security education program"" - delegate Tran Thi Dung said.

Penalties for acts of violating national security in the space bearing the image of him 2
Delegates of the National Assembly of Hai Duong province at the meeting. (Photo: Van Diep/VNA)

Sharing the same view, delegate Nguyen Thanh Cong (Ninh Binh) stated that the regulations on education and training in cybersecurity knowledge are not completely synchronized with the provisions of Articles 10, 11, 12 of the Law on National Defense Education. , security 2013.

Accordingly, not all schools have core subjects on national defense and security education, only schools from upper secondary schools, intermediate schools, colleges and universities have core subjects. on defense and security education.

According to the delegate, in order to ensure synchronization with the provisions of the Law on National Defense and Security Education, Clause 1, Article 34 should be revised as follows: ""Cybersecurity education is included in the main course of defense education. in secondary schools, colleges, universities and schools of state agencies, political organizations, socio-political organizations.'

Disagreeing, delegate Nguyen Hong Van (Phu Yen) affirmed that cybersecurity education is absolutely necessary because the development trend of society is getting stronger, information technology is getting more and more preeminent, many children using smart devices, smartphones, smart TVs, etc. Therefore, educating about network security for vigilance is essential. However, the drafting board should have clear regulations on dosage and method suitable for each subject. In addition, there should be a program to update knowledge for officials and civil servants to raise their vigilance about using network security.

Also in the discussion session on the morning of May 29, the National Assembly deputies spent a lot of time discussing the important information system on national security; on handling acts of using cyberspace to infringe upon national sovereignty, security, social order and safety; on ensuring information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam..."	
"According to experts, along with the great benefits of information technology and the Internet, the situation of revealing state secrets and personal information of users on the Internet is worrying. Therefore, protecting network security is an urgent task of the whole political system, people...

Dozens of secret leaks every year

At the National Exhibition and Conference on Security and Security (Security World 2018) taking place on April 5, Lieutenant General, Associate Professor Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department (Ministry of Public Security), said that Vietnam Nam is one of the 20 countries with the highest Internet application and development speed in the world with nearly 60 million users (accounting for more than 62% of the population).

However, in the connected world of cyberspace, Vietnam is also strongly affected by developments in the world's cybersecurity situation, posing significant risks and challenges for each agency. organizations and individuals, even threatening national defense and security.

According to Mr. Thuan, the situation of revealing state secrets and revealing personal information of Internet users is worrying. Every year, authorities detect dozens of cases of leaking state secrets on the Internet.

""The reality may be far beyond the detected number due to the anonymous and difficult-to-detect nature of the network environment, leading to unpredictable consequences,"" Mr. Thuan said.

[Aware of information security in Vietnam like… cat chases mouse]

Unfairness and information disturbance in cyberspace cause a lot of damage to organizations and individuals. According to statistics by the end of 2017, Vietnam is in the Top 10 countries with the most social network users in the world.

Mr. Thuan said that, in addition to useful utilities and positive information, Vietnamese Internet users, especially young people, and even children, are negatively affected by thousands of information and images containing content. false, malicious, lewd, depraved, inciting violence, mental terror, fraud, etc., are freely distributed in cyberspace.

Attack increase

According to Mr. Thuan, currently, cyber attacks are constantly increasing, especially ransomware attacks, which are becoming more and more popular and dangerous.

“Every year, thousands of Vietnamese websites are attacked by hackers, edited, inserted, and installed malicious code. In which, there are hundreds of .gov.vn domain name pages of State agencies. Cyberattacks on the information systems of state agencies, economic, financial and banking groups in order to appropriate information and documents take place seriously. The monitoring and automatic control systems are attacked more and more, the dangerous nature is increasing, ""said Mr. Thuan.

Meanwhile, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hai, Director of the Information Security Department (Ministry of Information and Communications), said that in the past time, there have been many attacks causing information insecurity appearing on cyberspace. . Cyber ​​attacks are becoming more persistent, diverse, frequent and dangerous. In particular, the attack targets are gradually shifting from individual targets, to those of large economic groups or, more seriously, to important information systems of countries.

A representative of the Information Security Administration also said that cyber attacks tend to focus on vulnerabilities and weaknesses of IoT devices, typically surveillance cameras, which will cause many difficulties for the Government. government, especially when implementing e-government or smart city projects…

Agreeing, Mr. Mika Lauhde, Vice President of Cybersecurity, Privacy and Global Affairs of Huawei said that it is forecasted that by 2020 and 2025, the number of IoT connected via telecommunications networks will be 3 respectively. ,8 and 35 billion connections.

According to a Huawei representative, IoT devices often have limited resources and are vulnerable to attacks by dangerous adversaries. An attacker can compromise an IoT device and use it as a platform to start attacking other IoT devices. An attacker can use a large network of compromised IoT devices to attack. publicize a service or platform that every device uses or connects to.

Coverage of problems related to the country, information about Internet users in pictures 2
Bkav's cybersecurity experts in the contest for white hat hackers. (Photo: Vietnam+)

Building a code of conduct online

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the threat from cyberspace must be identified as one of the real and dangerous threats to national security, organizations and individuals. Cybersecurity protection is both an urgent and a long-term task of the whole political system, the responsibility of each agency, organization, enterprise and people, and it is necessary to raise awareness, responsibility, and self-reliance. defense and appropriate behavior for all levels, sectors and the whole society on cyber security issues.

Mr. Thuan recommended that organizations should focus on investing in technical infrastructure to ensure network security; strengthen security measures, research and search for suitable network security protection solutions. Strengthen cooperation between the State and private sector partners, especially enterprises that own and operate public infrastructure.Information technology providers of search services, Internet content, researchers and manufacturers of security solutions…. in order to mobilize the potential and active support of enterprises, thereby improving the efficiency of information safety and security.

At the same time, it is necessary to perfect the system of policies and laws on ensuring national cyber security, first of all, to develop and promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity and its guiding documents to create a legal corridor, identify clearly define the responsibilities of individuals, organizations and enterprises in protecting network security and have sanctions to strictly handle violations.

[When Facebook became a tool to spread disinformation]

Mr. Thuan said that it is necessary to promote the development of a Code of Conduct in cyberspace to form the self-consciousness of each citizen and the whole society. In particular, network users must actively research, learn and equip themselves with legal knowledge on network security, understand what information is allowed to post, take responsibility for information content and actions. vi to post their information in cyberspace. Internet service providers, agencies in charge of social networking sites are responsible for protecting information and personal secrets of users...

From another perspective, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hai said that the lack of information security human resources as well as the insufficient awareness of individuals and organizations have inadvertently created weaknesses so that daily incidents can occur. still occurs in information systems. According to experts, more than 90% of information security incidents occur due to human factors.

As an example from the case of tens of millions of Facebook users having their information leaked, Mr. Hai said that this incident has shown that the risk of information security is becoming more and more dangerous and Vietnam is not an exception. That direction.

According to Mr. Hai, besides the role of the state in creating a favorable legal environment, there should be close cooperation between managers, scientists and businesses, especially public corporations. multinational technology to ensure the stable development of the country…"	
"On the afternoon of April 4, at the National Assembly House, the National Assembly Standing Committee held a conference of National Assembly deputies working full-time to discuss the draft Law on Cybersecurity.

One of the issues that many delegates were interested in and commented on was the assurance of information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam.

According to the Report on some major issues on the draft Law on Cybersecurity, many opinions agree with the provisions of Clause 4, Article 34 of the draft Law submitted by the Government as mandatory for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications services. Information and communication networks in Vietnam must set up a representative agency or a server to manage Vietnamese user data in Vietnam.

However, some opinions disagree with this regulation, because they think that it is difficult to ensure the feasibility, is not true to reality, increases the costs of foreign enterprises, makes it difficult to access activities. information and contrary to international commitments to which Vietnam is a member... it is recommended to study other management methods accordingly.

The National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security said that this content has many different opinions, some foreign ambassadors in Vietnam and some organizations have comments. The National Defense and Security Committee has coordinated with the Foreign Affairs Committee to hold a conference to discuss and exchange with the ambassadors and clarify relevant recommendations.

On the basis of studying the international treaties to which Vietnam is a member, refer to the similar provisions of the laws of some countries that are members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and consider many aspects. , the National Defense and Security Committee proposed the adjustment plan.

Specifically, regarding the requirement to set up a data management server in the territory of Vietnam, the National Defense and Security Committee proposed not to stipulate this content in the draft Law to ensure feasibility and convenience for operations. of foreign enterprises when providing services to Vietnam.

Regarding the requirement to set up a representative agency and store Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory, the National Defense and Security Committee proposed to keep this content in the draft Law, but there are limitations on the subject matter. (enterprise) and data stored in Vietnam.

Such regulation will meet the requirements of protecting national sovereignty over electronic data and handling situations and acts in cyberspace that infringe upon national security, social order and safety; attach the obligations and responsibilities of foreign enterprises providing cross-border services in coordinating the provision of information and data for investigation, verification and handling of violations related to service users. in Viet Nam; ensure feasibility when coordinating to prevent and remove information against the Party and State, violating Vietnam's laws; effectively prevent destructive activities of domestic and foreign reactionaries and spies using cyberspace.

Such regulation is consistent with international treaties to which Vietnam is a member, in accordance with the 2013 Constitution of Vietnam, and at the same time, meets the requirements of the current practical situation.

According to statistics of the Ministry of Public Security, as of January 2018, Google has rented 1,781 servers, Facebook has hired 441 servers of Vietnamese businesses to store data.

In addition, this regulation also creates a legal corridor for functional ministries and branches to strictly manage the activities of enterprises providing cross-border services when doing business in Vietnam; ensure payment sovereignty and prevent tax loss for these enterprises; at the same time, eliminate inequality in business activities between foreign enterprises and domestic enterprises.

Giving opinions on the content of ensuring information security in cyberspace, delegate Nguyen Thanh Xuan (Can Tho) supported the view that foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam must have their headquarters. or representative office in Vietnam and store in Vietnam for personal information of service users in Vietnam, other important data collected, generated from infrastructure exploitation activities Vietnam's national cyberspace according to the Government's regulations.

However, delegate Nguyen Thanh Xuan still wondered about the feasibility of cloud computing technology operating on a global scale. star. Does this regulation go against international practice when the Internet is global network information?

Delegate Dinh Duy Vuot (Gia Lai) said that the regulation required foreign businesses when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam to set up a representative agency and a server to manage user data in Vietnam. (Clause 4, Article 34) is not feasible.

[Establishing an important information system related to national security]

According to delegate Dinh Duy Vuot, currently, the servers that regular users of Google, Facebook, YouTube... are located abroad. Besides, with current development technology, the server is not a specific machine, but according to the cloud algorithm, the server is a virtual machine that allows users tog access technology services from certain providers. Therefore, it is not possible to specify a server located in Vietnam. From the virtual server reality, the request to set up a representative office, the representative agency also needs to consider the feasibility.

Delegate Dinh Duy Vuot agreed with the regulation of data storage in Vietnam for personal information of service users in Vietnam. This helps management agencies to research and firmly grasp information; remove content infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

An issue also raised by many full-time National Assembly deputies is the concern of businesses in the telecommunications technology and digital content industries. Because, the draft Law has many binding contents that lead to a reduction in the benefits of enterprises, making them afraid to invest in and develop technology and services, and at the same time affect the privacy and freedom of citizens.

Therefore, it was suggested that the Drafting Committee should study the provisions in the draft Law to harmonize national security, social order and safety and human rights as stipulated in the Law. Constitution. Especially, to encourage enterprises in the field of technology to invest and develop.

Concluding the conference, Vice Chairman of the National Assembly Do Ba Ty emphasized that the draft Law on Cybersecurity is a difficult and complicated project, with many issues still having different opinions. The comments showed that some contents of the draft Law need to be further reviewed, perfected, and ensured feasibility. Cybersecurity protection measures must be tight and uniform but do not affect citizens' rights, production and business activities of enterprises.

National Assembly Vice Chairman Do Ba Ty said that after this meeting, the National Assembly Standing Committee will direct the drafting committee and the verifying agency to coordinate with relevant agencies to clarify relevant contents. , study, receive and consult the National Assembly delegations and the National Assembly Standing Committee before submitting the law bill at the upcoming 5th session."	
"The report on the results of explaining, absorbing and correcting major contents of the Cybersecurity Law project presented by Chairman of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet clearly indicated many unanimous opinions that must be determined. establish an important information system related to national security; at the same time, it is recommended to specify criteria and types of information systems.

Having comments to propose the addition of an important national security information system in the economic and cultural fields; propose to assign the Prime Minister to promulgate the List to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Law on Cyberinformation Security.

In addition, some comments suggested considering the identification of an important national security information system while having a national important information system in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Cyberinformation Security.

[National Assembly member: It is necessary to clarify ""state secrets"" so as not to be abused]

Standing Committee of National Defense and Security believes that the important information system for national security is the information system of targets and works that are important to national security, so it must be applied. measures to protect network security to prevent and combat attacks, sabotage the system and prevent and prevent the use of this system to infringe upon national security, social order and safety. Only applying measures to ensure network information security under the Law on Cyberinformation Security will not satisfy the requirements set forth.

Regarding network security management for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam (Clause 4, Article 34), some opinions disagree with the regulation requiring foreign enterprises to to set up a representative agency or a server to manage Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory and propose to research other appropriate management methods.

Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security Vo Trong Viet emphasized that in order to meet the requirements of State management on security and order, and to prevent, prevent and handle acts of using telecommunications networks and the Internet Cross-border entry into Vietnam violates the law, especially propaganda against the State, inciting opposition, sabotaging security, disrupting public order..., forcing some foreign enterprises to do business It is necessary for telecommunications and Internet services to have a head office or a representative office in Vietnam.

Check out important information related to national security 2
Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security Vo Trong Viet spoke at the meeting. (Photo: Phuong Hoa/VNA)

Receiving comments from the National Assembly deputies, the Standing Committee of National Defense and Security removed the regulation ""putting a server to manage Vietnamese user data in the territory of Vietnam"" and adjusted Clause 4, Article 34. as Clause 4, Article 27 of the draft Law. Accordingly, foreign enterprises, when providing telecommunications and Internet services in Vietnam, must locate their headquarters or representative offices in the Vietnamese territory when there are 10,000 or more Vietnamese users or upon request. of the Government of Vietnam; comply with requests of Vietnamese competent agencies in preventing and removing information that infringes upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. ; provide Vietnamese user data and handle violations of the law on network security.

Through discussion, members of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly said that this is a difficult and sensitive content that needs to be studied, absorbed and consulted to make the regulation highly feasible and consistent with treaties. international events that Vietnam participates in.

Speaking at the session, National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan noted that it is necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Constitution, the unity of the legal system, and continue to review to avoid overlapping and duplication of the Law. Cyberinformation Security and Cybersecurity Law. In addition, avoid restricting human rights and the right to access information as stipulated in the Constitution as well as international commitments to which Vietnam is a member.

It is necessary to regulate the ""state of national defense emergency""

Also on the afternoon of January 10, the National Assembly Standing Committee gave opinions on issues with different opinions of the draft National Defense Law (amended).

According to the Report on some issues asking for opinions on the draft National Defense Law (amended), with regard to the state of emergency on national defense, some opinions suggest considering this provision to be consistent with the Constitution. 2013 and agreed with the Law on Organization of the National Assembly, the Law on Government Organization, and the Law on Promulgation of Legal Documents, which only stipulates on the “state of emergency.”

Representative of the law project inspection agency, Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security, Vo Trong Viet, said that the regulation ""state of emergency on national defense"" is aimed at institutionalizing Resolution No. September 22, 2008 of the Politburo ""on continuing to build the provinces and cities directly under the Central Government into solid defense areas in the new situation;"" concretize Clause 13, Article 70 of the 2013 Constitution “providing a state of emergency and other special measures to ensure national defense and security;” inheriting Article 31 of the current National Defense Law, and at the same time ensuring the uniformityArticle 21, Article 48 of the Law on Military Service 2014, Article 44 of the Law on Militia and Self-Defense in 2009 and Clause 1, Article 5 of the Law on Property Purchase and Requisition in 2008.

On the other hand, Article 1 of the Ordinance on State of Emergencies of 2000 only regulates the state of emergency related to disasters, natural disasters, epidemics or when there is a situation that seriously threatens national security and social order and safety. There is no provision for a state of emergency when the country is in direct danger of invasion or there has been an act of aggression or armed riot, but has not yet reached the point of declaring a state of war.

In fact, in recent years, ministries, branches and localities across the country, and the people's armed forces have built a system of documents, plans and organized training and drills on ""national emergency."" room."" Therefore, it is necessary to prescribe a ""state of national emergency"" in the draft Law, creating a legal basis for national defense activities, ensuring national defense, building the people's armed forces, ready to successfully deal with all wars of aggression.

Check out important information related to national security 3
Minister of Public Security To Lam spoke at the meeting. (Photo: Phuong Hoa/VNA)

Regarding the National Defense and Security Council (Article 36 of the draft Law submitted by the Government), many opinions agree that the Ministry of Defense is the standing body of the National Defense and Security Council. Some suggestions suggest that the standing body is the Office of the President or both the Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security.

[Building a cyber warfare force straight to modernity]
 

According to the Standing Committee of National Defense and Security Committee of the National Assembly, the Ministry of National Defense has the function of advising the Party and State on defense lines and strategies, military strategies; assisting the Government in state management of national defense; organize the performance of military, national defense and defense tasks. On the other hand, according to Decision No. 1188-QD/CTN dated June 3, 2014 of the State President, the Office of the President does not have the function to advise on matters in the fields of national defense, military, security, and insurance. defend the Fatherland. Therefore, the regulation that the Ministry of National Defense is the standing agency assisting the National Defense and Security Council as submitted by the draft Government Law is appropriate. However, in order to ensure strict compliance, the Standing Committee of the National Defense and Security Committee requested the National Assembly Standing Committee to consult with the National Defense and Security Council and competent authorities on this content.

Concluding the meeting, National Assembly Vice Chairman Do Ba Ty pointed out that the National Defense and Security Council is a constitutional body; therefore, related issues must adhere to the provisions of the Constitution. The determination of the standing agency of the National Defense and Security Council requires research and consultation with the National Defense and Security Council.

National Assembly Vice Chairman Do Ba Ty asked the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security to coordinate with the drafting committee and relevant agencies to fully absorb comments to complete the draft law and send it to the delegation. National Assembly deputies continued to complete and submit them to the National Assembly for consideration at the 5th Session."	
"Continuing the program of the session on the morning of November 23, the National Assembly deputies discussed in the hall the draft Law on Cybersecurity. The necessity of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity is a content analyzed and commented on by many National Assembly deputies at the discussion session.

According to the report, the Law on Cybersecurity was born to meet the requirements of cybersecurity work in protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety; preventing and responding to threats to network security; overcome existing and limitations related to network security protection; fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, basic rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland, and with international practices.

[Forecast of possible cybersecurity threats in 2018]

Verification of the draft Law, the National Assembly's Committee on National Defense and Security approved the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity to protect national security, and at the same time demonstrated Vietnam's responsibility in cooperating in solving cases. using cyberspace to terrorize and sabotage world security and peace.

Through the discussion, many delegates agreed with the need for a Law on Cybersecurity because in the current situation, cybersecurity is a matter of global concern, having a strong and comprehensive impact on various fields. of social life. Many countries promulgate laws, introduce policies to develop information technology, improve capacity to prevent, defend, prevent and attack in cyberspace to protect values, interests, security of the country. In our country, hostile forces, some types of criminals, and some other objects have been using cyberspace to commit acts of sabotage, profiteering or infringing upon, threatening to infringe upon the nation. defense, national security, social order and safety, property of the State, agencies, organizations and individuals, especially in the condition that the information technology infrastructure system is not synchronized. management still has many loopholes, the policy system is not synchronized.

Agreeing with the need for this law, delegate Trieu Tuan Hai (Lang Son) analyzed that Vietnam is currently in the group of countries with the most cyberattacks. Hostile forces and criminals thoroughly take advantage of the internet's utility, especially social networks, to conduct activities to infringe on security and order, causing instability in society. Vietnam has no legal documents on cyber security; Existing regulations on cyberinformation security are not enough to deter and prevent violations in cyberspace. Delegates expressed the view that the development and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary and suitable for the world, thereby effectively contributing to solving difficulties and obstacles in the implementation of network security as well as prevention and combat against activities using the internet to infringe upon national security, social order and safety.

Asking the question, why there is a Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security but still have to develop a Law on Cyber ​​​​Security, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau (Nghe An) analyzed that the scope of regulation of the two laws is completely different. Citing the Penal Code, which regulates all crimes, the Law on Anti-corruption or the Law on Drug Prevention and Control prescribes measures to prevent and fight more intensively with the types of crimes that the state sees. More dangerous, it is necessary to prioritize prevention and control, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau argued: The Law on Cyberinformation Security protects information security on the three most common attributes, that is, the integrity of information; confidentiality of information; availability of information. The draft Law on Cybersecurity focuses on combating malicious information, infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations in the network environment. Affirming that this is the fundamental difference between the Law on Cyberinformation Security and the Law on Cybersecurity, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau found that it is normal to have more specialized laws on the network environment. The US, China, UK... already have a Law on Cybersecurity that the Drafting Board consulted when developing this law.

Debating again with delegate Nguyen Huu Cau, delegate Nguyen Lan Hieu (An Giang) assessed that the cybersecurity protection measures in the draft Law on Cybersecurity have many similarities with the Law on Cyberinformation Security. . Delegate Nguyen Lan Hieu suggested that the National Assembly should complete and supplement existing laws, strengthen the management of social networks in the Civil Code, the Penal Code, and the Law on Access to Information to prevent fake news. ... In order to ensure a democratic development environment but still ensure national security, it is necessary to consider carefully and carefully before promulgating a law regulating this very sensitive field, the delegate suggested.

With the same view, delegate Nguyen Thi Kim Thuy (Da Nang) said that the reasons given by the Drafting Committee included: Meeting the requirements of cybersecurity work in protecting national security, ensuring order and security. all society; prevent and respond to threats to securitynetwork; overcoming existing and limitations related to network security protection to explain the need to enact the Law is not convincing. Delegates analyze the network as just a means and a space where acts of violating national security can take place. If it is said that there should be a separate law on cyber security, security in many other fields such as aviation security, food security ... must also be regulated by separate laws. ""As for the field of network information protection, this has been stipulated in the Law on Cyberinformation Security,"" the delegate stated.

For the reasons that the Law on Cybersecurity was born to fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, fundamental rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland; To ensure conformity with international practices, delegate Thuy said that in fact the provisions on this issue in Chapter 2 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity are just concretization and guidance on the implementation of regulations on security and privacy. Network information security assurance is specified in Chapter 2 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security. These specific contents are specified in Chapter 4, Decree 85 of the Government on responsibility to ensure information system security.

The draft Law was first submitted to the National Assembly for consideration at this session. Through the comments of the National Assembly deputies, Minister of Public Security To Lam spoke, explained and clarified some of the issues raised by the delegates at the discussion session, thereby completing the draft Law submitted to the National Assembly. National Assembly at the next session."	
"Through discussion, delegates assessed that, after more than 15 years of implementation, the Ordinance on Protection of State Secrets has obtained many positive results, contributing to improving the efficiency of management and protection of State secrets.

However, the actual situation has changed a lot, citizens' right to access and use information in socio-economic development is increasing.

On the other hand, the challenge of the industrial revolution 4.0 requires specific and appropriate solutions to ensure the protection of State secrets.

Delegate Dinh Duy Vut (Gia Lai) said that in the past time, there has been a situation of revealing and leaking many State secrets, causing serious consequences, greatly affecting socio-economic development, ensuring security. national defense and security.

For example, the disclosure or leakage of secrets in the field of direction of the competent authority for the settlement of complaints and denunciations will cause difficulties in the proceedings; divulging, leaking information and secrets in construction bidding will cause group interests and personal interests.

[The 4th Session, XIV National Assembly: Protecting State Secrets]

Therefore, according to delegate Dinh Duy Vuot, the development and promulgation of the Law on Protection of State Secrets to overcome the shortcomings and limitations in the past time is an objective requirement.

In addition, many delegates also pointed out that, stemming from the reality of the protection of State secrets, the requirements of the international cooperation process of our Party and State today, it is necessary to develop a Law on Security. protecting State secrets in order to ensure compatibility with the Agreements on protection of confidential information between Vietnam and other countries; consistent with relevant international treaties to which Vietnam is a contracting party; meeting the requirements of domestic law, creating a basis for the implementation of Vietnam's commitments in coordinating and sharing information, including information under the scope of State secrets.

Proposing to supplement regulations on conferences and seminars with contents related to State secrets

Regarding the scope of regulation and subjects of application, the majority of delegates agreed with the provisions in the draft Law.

Accordingly, the draft Law provides for State secrets, state secret protection activities and responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in protecting State secrets; applicable to agencies, organizations and individuals involved in the protection of State secrets.

Some argue that, in fact, the list of State secrets in some industries and fields includes documents from foreign countries or international organizations transferred to Vietnam.

Therefore, in order to have a basis for managing and protecting State secrets in international cooperation activities on information exchange, the delegates proposed to supplement the scope of regulation for secret information provided by the agency. Foreign agencies, organizations and individuals transfer to Vietnam under international treaties and agreements to which Vietnam is a signatory.

Regarding the list of State secrets, it is said that determining the list of State secrets is very difficult because it covers many fields.

Therefore, it is necessary to clarify the concept of what is a State secret, to absolutely avoid abusing the protection of State secrets to conceal information for group purposes or personal interests.

Citing a case where the authorities kept stamping documents and documents as confidential even though the information in those documents was not confidential, delegate Nghiem Vu Khai (Hai Phong) noted, the drafting board It is necessary to carefully consider which cases the documents are confidential and which are not.

Regarding the organization of conferences, seminars and meetings with State secret contents, Clause 4, Article 14 of the draft Law stipulates: ""Conferences, seminars and meetings with State secret contents must be held in places where the contents are State secret. ensuring safety and the right audience. Information disseminated, researched and exchanged must conform to the approved content and protected in accordance with this Law.""

Delegate Huynh Thanh Canh (Binh Thuan) assessed that, in fact, the organization of meetings, conferences and seminars using and exchanging State secret information has not been strictly controlled on the venue. Organizations, participants, participants, means and equipment ensure safety, leading to the risk of revealing State secrets.

Therefore, the delegate suggested that the drafting committee study, supplement and clarify regulations on conferences, seminars and meetings with State secret content in order to minimize the disclosure of State secret information through these activities.

Avoid overlapping with relevant laws

At the working session on the afternoon of November 13, the National Assembly deputies discussed in groups and gave opinions on the draft Law on Cybersecurity.

The majority of delegates agreed with the need to enact the Law on Cybersecurity. Delegate Ngo Minh Chau (Ho Chi Minh component) emphasized, in the context that our country faces the threat from cybercriminals causing information insecurity; Some organizations and individuals are ""stalked"" by online attacks such as spyware, malicious code distribution to destroy data, steal information, etc.

The development of the Law project is very necessary to contribute to the prevention, prevention, response and remediation of consequences of cyber-attacks and terrorist activities.

However, some National Assembly deputies noted that the provisions of the draft Law on Cybersecurity also overlap with the Law on Ciphers, the Law on Electronic Transactions, the Law on Cyber ​​Information Security, and the Law on Cybersecurity.national defense, even overlapping state management functions between the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Information and Communications.

According to delegate Nghiem Vu Khai (Hai Phong), network security is a long-term strategy and part of network information security, so it is necessary to consider and calculate the suitability and compatibility with the Law on Information Security. network.

The Cybersecurity Law Project must focus on regulating activities to protect national security, maintain social order and safety, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace and other organizations. provisions in the Law project should adhere to this goal.

Sharing the same opinion, delegate Nguyen Thanh Xuan (Can Tho) said that some provisions in the Law project overlap and overlap with other legal documents.

Citing regulations on the appraisal competence of enterprises in the field of information technology, while the Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security is the Ministry of Information and Communications, this draft Law stipulates that the Ministry of Public Security, the representative of the Ministry of Public Security. Nguyen Thanh Xuan suggested.

Therefore, the drafting agency needs to clearly define the scope of adjustment of the law project, review regulations to overcome the above limitations, and ensure effective State management of this issue.

[The National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security discusses the Law on Cybersecurity]

As for the State's policy on cybersecurity (Article 4), some comments suggest additional policies on the protection of national cyber infrastructure, important information systems on national security family; training and developing human resources, ensuring regimes and policies for the network security force, investing and allocating funds to protect network security.

Regarding the prohibited acts specified in Article 8 of the draft Law, a number of National Assembly deputies proposed to review the relevant acts specified in the Penal Code to include the prohibited provisions in this Law; design prohibition regulations in the direction of prohibiting acts of infringing upon, sabotaging or attacking information systems important to national security; prohibit the use of computer networks, telecommunications networks, electronic means and cyberspace to commit crimes infringing upon national security, social order and safety; prohibiting the use of computer networks, telecommunications networks, electronic means, and cyberspace to infringe upon human rights, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals."	
"It is necessary to enact the Law on Cybersecurity

According to the report, the cyber security situation in Vietnam in recent years has been complicated and tends to increase, especially cyber attacks on the information systems of State agencies and large enterprises. , affecting the interests of the country, national security and social order and safety. In 2016, Vietnam detected 135,190 cyber attacks, tripled compared to 2015; including 10,276 phishing attacks, 47,135 malware attacks and 77,779 deface attacks.

The problem of using cyberspace to carry out acts of opposition and plot to carry out ""peaceful evolution"" tends to increase. Hostile and reactionary forces at home and abroad take advantage of cyberspace to conduct anti-social activities, post false videos, information and articles, distort the situation of the country, and divide the great unity bloc. ethnic minorities, distorting the Party's lines, policies and laws of the State, smearing and slandering Party and State leaders, inciting people to protest, riot... causing economic instability , politics, national defense and security.

In addition, the use of cyberspace to commit criminal acts has also increased in recent years, especially the situation of cyber-attackers, infiltrating the databases of banks and merchants. shop, make online payments to steal credit card information, make fake cards to get money from account holders; use the Internet and telecommunications to fraudulently obtain property (through business, sales, fundraising), extortion, money laundering, gambling, distribution of pornographic publications, arms trafficking , drugs, prohibited goods...

[Nearly 10,000 cybersecurity incidents in the first nine months of 2017]

The situation of using malware and espionage to steal and collect State secret information and secrets of agencies, organizations and individuals in cyberspace is complicated, especially on mobile applications. applications, mobile device software, through text messages, emails or malicious applications, malicious code. From 2001 to December 2016, the authorities discovered 502 cases of leaking State secrets on the Internet; In 2016, the Ministry of Public Security discovered and handled 69 cases of leaking state secrets on the Internet.

At the meeting, the majority of delegates agreed with the need to promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity and emphasized the need to strengthen the prevention and control of activities of reactionary and dissident objects. criminals taking advantage of cyberspace to commit acts of sabotage, profiteering or infringing upon, threatening national defense and security, social order and safety, property of the State, agencies, organizations and individuals.

Presenting the preliminary inspection report of the Law on Cybersecurity, Chairman of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet assessed that our country's information technology infrastructure system still has many shortcomings and limitations. mechanism, lack of synchronization; The management and operation are not good and there are many loopholes and loopholes that can be exploited to infringe on sovereignty, national security, order, safety and social order, and information safety in space. network.

Although there is the Law on Cyberinformation Security, the Law on Electronic Transactions and more than 40 directive documents of the Government in the field of information security, through the actual survey and consultation with experts, it has been shown that there are still many gaps and loopholes in the protection of national sovereignty and security, assuring security and information safety in cyberspace. Therefore, the development and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is necessary. Mr. Vo Trong Viet requested the Drafting Board to study and review the contents of the draft Law to avoid overlapping regulations with other related laws.

Ensuring the requirements of national security, social order and safety protection

The draft Law on Cybersecurity includes 7 chapters and 61 articles; in which specific regulations on network security protection, implementation of activities to ensure network security, development of network security human resources, ensuring conditions for implementation of network security work...

Presenting the proposal of the Cybersecurity Law Project, Senior Lieutenant General To Lam, Politburo member, Minister of Public Security emphasized: The promulgation of the law is to meet the requirements of cybersecurity work in security protection. the country, ensuring social order and safety; preventing and responding to threats to network security; overcome limitations and existing problems related to network security protection.

From the point of view of law-making, it is necessary to fully and promptly institutionalize the guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and State on cybersecurity; ensure the uniformity and consistency of the legal system, and reasonably determine the relationship between this law and related laws; selectively refer to international experiences to apply flexibly to the practical conditions of Vietnam.

Regarding the regulatory scope of the law, the first line of opinion is that it is necessary to narrow the scope of regulation of the Law on Cybersecurity to focus on national security; However, there are also opinions, it is necessary to develop the regulatory scope of the Law on Cybersecurity, not only focusing on national security but also ensuring order and security.all society.

In this regard, Minister To Lam said that with the current strong development of science and technology, cyberspace has penetrated into all areas of social life and is present in most of the world. human activities. If cybersecurity protection only focuses on national security protection, it will miss many objects, objectives and contents that need to be protected, failing to meet the requirements of protecting national sovereignty, interests and security. , social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

Therefore, Minister To Lam said, the draft Law on Cybersecurity defines the scope of regulation as ""stipulating principles, measures, contents, activities and conditions to ensure the implementation of security protection activities"". cybersecurity; responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals participating in cyberspace and related to the network security protection activities of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam"" are consistent with the general trend of in the world and in the region, ensuring the protection of sovereignty, national security interests, and social order and safety.

Speaking at the session, National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan emphasized the necessity of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity in the era of explosive development of information technology.

Commenting on the draft law, the National Assembly Chairman said that the draft Law on Cybersecurity has many provisions related to other laws such as the Law on Cyberinformation Security, the Law on Electronic Transactions, the Law on Telecommunications, etc. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly suggested that the Law Drafting Board should analyze more deeply the current state of legislation in the field of cyber security, clarifying the need to promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity. Issues already specified in other laws do not need to be re-stipulated in the Law on Cybersecurity to avoid duplication and overlap.

According to the National Assembly Chairman, many provisions in the draft Law on Cybersecurity are related to human rights and citizens' rights, so the draft law should follow the provisions of the Constitution and relevant laws. Regulations on restrictions on civil rights and human rights must be enshrined in this Law, not in sub-law documents.

In addition, the President of the National Assembly requested the Law Drafting Board to review and complete the provisions of the draft law on the scope of the law; on information systems important to national security; on prevention and response to network security risks and incidents."	
"Not only that, a representative of a foreign embassy in Hanoi expressed ""concern"" because he said that the Law ""affects the demand for localization and limits on multinational services as well as affects the development and growth of the Vietnamese economy”! And there have been criticisms affirming that the Law only directly affects enterprises in production and business of technology, digital services, and network security, and that is only a very small group compared to 561,064 enterprises already registered. Business Registration. As for the issue of improving the business environment, the reviewer also questioned: Without the Law on Cybersecurity, what is the legal basis to solve the fact that ""enterprises are still calling for help because they are being faked? brand on social networks, fake fanpage, crash website, report business account, get bad news from competitors, manipulate...?"".

Loosing to slander, but those who speak out ignore the fact that advanced countries manage network security very closely. As Khai Phung, a German of Vietnamese origin, said that in Germany, when opening an account on facebook, in addition to agreeing to the terms of facebook, the registrant must also agree to abide by the German Law on Cybersecurity. NetzDG), which stipulates that the person involved is ""not justified"" when there is a violation of the prohibited articles, such as: ""distributing propaganda materials of organizations that violate the constitution; use insignia or emblems of organizations contrary to the constitution; use violence to subvert national security; instructing others to use violence to threaten national security; falsifying information affecting foreign security; openly instigating criminal acts; disturbing public order by threatening to commit illegal acts; forming criminal and terrorist organizations at home and abroad; collection of these organizations; instigating (violence, hatred); instructing others to commit crimes (instructing children under 18 years old to be charged with crimes); insulting beliefs, religions as well as world views; insult, defame and slander; trespassing into private living areas by taking pictures; threaten; In the US, President Obama passed the Net Neutrality Act, which required network service providers to treat all data packets transmitted over the internet as normal. However, at the end of 2017, the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to repeal the law. This vote has faced strong opposition from the US public because they believe that the repeal ""will make the internet in the US become a playground ""only for the rich"", and the carriers have the power to do so. full power to squeeze, block bandwidth at will, to prioritize your ""child"" services and block other similar services""...!

In short, just comparing with the German Law on Cybersecurity, we can see that the so-called ""democrats"" have committed very serious violations, so they oppose the National Assembly of Vietnam passing the Law on Cybersecurity. understandable too!"	
"After the National Assembly approved the Law on Cybersecurity, the Prime Minister assigned the Ministry of Public Security to urgently develop 3 main documents and submit them to the Government, including: Government Decree detailing the order and procedures. apply a number of measures to protect network security (clause 2, Article 5); Decree of the Government detailing a number of articles in the Law on Cybersecurity (Clause 4, Article 110; Clause 5, Article 12; Clause 1, Article 23; Clause 7, Article 24; Clause 4, Article 26; Clause 5 , Article 36); Decision of the Prime Minister promulgating the list of information systems important for national security (Clause 3, Article 10, Clause 3, Article 43).

Following the direction of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Public Security has urgently implemented the order and procedures in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Promulgation of Legal Documents. On September 7, 2018, the Ministry of Public Security issued Decision No. 5117/QD-BCA to establish a Drafting Board and an Editorial Team to develop Government Decrees guiding the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law. In order to ensure the set schedule, the Ministry of Public Security has directed the relevant functional agencies to urgently develop the drafts and carry out the order and procedures as prescribed.

The documents guiding the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity are important and complex documents, directly related to the protection of national security, ensuring social order and safety, and protecting the sovereignty of the country. country. These sub-law documents are related to the functions and tasks of many ministries and branches and have received great attention from domestic and foreign agencies, organizations and individuals.

At the request of the Prime Minister, documents guiding the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity need to be urgently completed to submit to the Government for consideration and promulgation, ensuring its implementation effect from January 1, 2019.

The provisions in the draft will continue to be consulted and revised to finalize and submit to the Government for consideration and decision. However, from the middle of October 2018 to now, that is, after the meeting of the Drafting Committee, the editorial team developed the Government's Decrees guiding the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law (October 9, 2018). On the Internet appeared manuscripts copied, photographed, accompanied by articles criticizing, criticizing, even attributing with very heavy words.

On some websites such as RFA, VOA Vietnamese, BBC Vietnamese, a number of blogs and facebook pages of overseas individuals with opposing views and thoughts have posted and shared articles criticizing and disparaging such as: “The Communist Party of Vietnam is about to implement the Law on Cybersecurity to increase control over the people”; ""Draft Decree guiding the Law on Cybersecurity: Enterprises stand still""; “Draft Decree guiding the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity: The Law of Dictatorship”; “Ministry of Public Security drafts Decree guiding the Law on Cybersecurity, people are worried about personal information being controlled”…

There are even tens of thousands of people signing a ""petition"" asking for a postponement of the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law. These people cited a number of provisions in the Law and draft Decree, self-identified as ""intellectual"" or ""lawyer"", dissected the hairstyle of his beard on her chin, pretended to be knowledgeable about international law. voice ""towards a democratic society, internet freedom"", thereby evading cheating, referring to it in a very subjective and short-sighted way.

They attributed, after the revisions, ""the essence of this draft has not changed"", said that the scope of user data that is required to be stored in Vietnam is still very wide and ""the cost of the economy has not changed"". The economy to enforce the law is still enormous and absurd.”

Some individuals even attributed it to their personal facebook page, saying that the draft regulation represents an abuse of power by the Cybersecurity Department, saying that the draft's approach is to consider businesses, people, people who participate in social networks like… criminals!

Inferring the Law on Cybersecurity and the regulations that are forming in the decree ""not only has there been no solution to effectively protect Vietnam's network against hackers, but it also puts it at higher risk when forcing data storage."" individuals in a country with a low-tech background and a team of law enforcement officers are easy to abuse power”…

In fact, these reactions and criticisms all originate from cases that have been continuously criticized and opposed since the draft Law on Cybersecurity was consulted by organizations and individuals, that is, for several years now. . Now, before the Law on Cybersecurity is about to take effect and the guiding documents are being revised and completed, this number is juggled.

In terms of argument, the critics have rehashed four contents that they have made in the campaign against the Law on Cybersecurity for a long time. That is, they believe that the Law on Cybersecurity violates the right to privacy and freedom of expression and internet freedom, arguing that the enactment of the law is ""strangling the right to information online"".

Secondly, they criticized the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity, which will cause many high-tech enterprises and businesses operating on the Internet to face difficulties in terms of procedures, funding and security, causing them to stop doing business. in Vietnam, withdraw from Vietnam.

Third, referring to the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law will turn the Ministry of Public Security, directly the CThe Cybersecurity Department has become a ""super-power"" agency, capable of monitoring the private life, political life and economic-financial transactions of all agencies, organizations, businesses and individuals.

On some pages, it is also satirical that from now on, people going to coffee and having breakfast are also controlled by cyber security! Fourth, from the above criticism, many people pushed the issue up to successfully attack Vietnam's political regime as ""dictatorship"", ""totalitarian"".

It should be seen that, along with the Law on Special Zones, the Law on Cybersecurity are two laws that hostile and reactionary forces take advantage of as a front, hiding in the shadow of patriotism, freedom, democracy, and human rights to protect their country. oppose the Party, State and socialist regime in Vietnam, distribute the so-called ""open letters and petitions"", incite people to protest, oppose the regime, smash the offices of public authorities, create excuses make ""color revolution"".

Recently, the Hate Change group launched a campaign called ""20 days to save the net"". Accordingly, those participating in this campaign were called by hostile and reactionary objects to write, post and sign ""petitions"" to put pressure on the government. They also set up a game of recording clips of melodious music (parodying Vietnamese songs, and lyrics with ironic content about the Law on Cybersecurity).

It is a fact that many articles online have been added, mutilated, and misrepresented by the subjects to distract readers, causing those who do not know the issue to be ""dragged"" into the circle. information vortex.

It should be noted that the agency in charge of network security is assigned by law the tasks within the permitted framework, that is, it has the right to request the network operator to provide personal data related to criminal investigation. handle violations of the law.

In other cases, all personal information is kept strictly confidential and cannot be interfered by a network security agency. This is the principle, so it cannot be said that this agency has become a “super power” that can monitor and make use of all information.

Cybersecurity is a global problem, advanced countries have also built and given specialized agencies under the Government specific powers, why don't opponents jump in to criticize?

As revealed by former CIA employee Edward Snowden, the US National Security Agency (NSA) has direct access to the servers of a series of large companies such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo, PalTalk, YouTube, etc. Skype, AOL… to track Internet activities around the world.

If we talk about human rights, it is clear that this practice shows that the NSA violates human rights on a global scale and that large internet service providers are controlled by the NSA.

The requirement to store important data in the country has also been regulated by many countries such as the US, Canada, Russia, Germany, China, Indonesia, Greece, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and Turkey. Turkey, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil…

On May 25, 2018, the European Union's personal data protection regulations officially took effect, allowing citizens to control their personal data when participating in forums and social networks in the direction of: can look up, change, delete their personal information, service providers must disclose to customers how to use personal information, commit not to transfer personal data to third parties. third, if violated, the fine can be up to 20 million Euro or 40% of the global sales of the violating company.

With Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law, it is not compulsory for all agencies and organizations to comply with this regulation and it is not compulsory to store all data. Only some agencies, organizations and types of data must comply, on the basis of the requirements of security protection, public order, culture, ethics, fine customs and traditions of Vietnam.

According to Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, former Director of the Cybersecurity Department, when developing this regulation, the Drafting Board carefully reviewed the international commitments and treaties to which Vietnam is a member, including the Organization World Trade (WTO) and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).

Therefore, regulations on data storage are not contrary to, do not violate commitments and do not hinder Vietnam's implementation of international commitments. Because bilateral or multilateral commitments have principles on security, public order, culture and public health. The interests of countries participating in the commitments are always upheld and respected, without any commitments forcing us to sacrifice these interests."	
"Previously, on June 9, Binh Duong Provincial Police detained Tran Minh Hue (37 years old, from Thanh Hoa) and Nguyen Dinh Thanh (27 years old, from Nghe An) for printing documents, calling people to come down. Illegal protest streets, disrupting security and order. At the time of being caught, Hue was spreading leaflets at Song Than Industrial Park (Di An town, Binh Duong province). The police agency has seized thousands of documents with the content calling for people to protest, against the consideration of leasing land as a special economic zone. At the security investigation agency, Hue admitted to following the direction of outside reactionary organizations, through social networks, and at the same time being aware of her ignorance.

On June 10, there was a phenomenon of workers and workers in some localities illegally gathering to march. Before that, the Ho Chi Minh City Police also detained some people who had stretched banners, provoked and entice people to participate in protests.

Currently, functional agencies of the Ministry of Public Security are continuing to coordinate with relevant provinces and cities to investigate and handle subjects in accordance with law. It also prevents similar behaviors from happening.

Following the above events and stringing together a lot of information, it shows that recently, taking advantage of the fact that the National Assembly is discussing, considering and approving the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units Van Don, Bac Van. Phong, Phu Quoc and the Law on Cybersecurity, hostile forces find all ways to distort and incite to destroy; exaggerate a number of issues that still need to be discussed, clarified, supplemented and modified into risks, in order to create ""variable"" events, complex hotspots...

The Party and State always respect, listen and absorb in a timely manner

First of all, we need to affirm that people from all walks of life are interested in commenting, discussing, and drafting, including social criticism of the Party's guidelines, policies, and laws. of the State is extremely necessary, an issue that is always respected by our Party and State. At the Document of the 11th National Congress, our Party emphasized: ""The Party respects autonomy, supports all voluntary, active, creative activities and sincerely listens to the contributions of the Front and mass organizations. The Party and State have mechanisms and policies to create conditions for the Front and mass organizations to operate effectively and perform the role of social supervision and criticism. At the 12th National Congress, our Party continued to affirm: ""The Fatherland Front plays a pivotal role in rallying and mobilizing the people, promoting the patriotic emulation movement, and promoting the great strength of national unity. , implement democracy, strengthen social consensus; supervise and criticize society; participate in Party and State building, people's foreign affairs, contributing to the construction and defense of the Fatherland.

Recently, a number of issues have emerged that have raised public doubts and worries around the Law Project on Special Administrative-Economic Units Van Don, Bac Van Phong, Phu Quoc and the Law on Cybersecurity. The comments as well as public opinion were listened to, absorbed by the leaders of the Party and State, and promptly and quickly adjusted. In the corridor of the National Assembly on the morning of June 7, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Head of the National Steering Committee on the construction of special administrative-economic units answered the press, saying that he had received many messages, Letters and phone calls from intellectuals, National Assembly deputies... about the 99-year land lease in the draft law, especially intellectuals are very thoughtful. The Prime Minister emphasized that the Government listens to opinions and listens responsibly to intellectuals, people and National Assembly deputies. “When introducing such a bill, many people, intellectuals and overseas Vietnamese gave their opinions. Such patriotism is very welcome,"" Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said and affirmed that he would absorb and listen to the necessary things to adjust the law to help the country develop and create an investment and business environment. , but sustainable development, ensuring the country's independence and territorial sovereignty in the long run. The Government will report to the National Assembly on the adjustment of the draft law on shortening the number of years of land lease, no longer keeping the 99-year level as in the original draft.

“I would also like to say that this is rented land. What process does the leased land follow, annually the People's Committee submits to the People's Council the land rental price, not permanently assigning rents and concessions like Hong Kong and Macau. Those are two completely different things. Unfortunately, many people misunderstand this issue,"" the Prime Minister said.

Right after that, on the morning of June 9, the Government Office released a press release saying: The Government agreed with the Standing Committee of the National Assembly (UBTVQH) on submitting to the National Assembly for consideration and postponement of the adoption of the Law on Units. special administrative-economic (special zone law) from the fifth session to the next session to have more time to research and perfect. The proposal to postpone the approval of the bill was made after absorbing the enthusiastic opinions and responsibilities of National Assembly deputies, scientists, economists, experts, voters and the people of the country. .

On the same day, the Office of the National Assembly also issued a statement saying that, after receiving the opinions of the National Assembly deputies, people from all walks of life andVoters, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has carefully considered, considered many aspects, and agreed with the Government to amend the law project in the direction of not stipulating in special cases the duration of land use for production and business in the special zone can be not more than 99 years. The Standing Committee of the National Assembly agreed with the Government to respectfully request the National Assembly to adjust the time for passing this bill from the fifth session to the next session to have more time to study and absorb the most relevant opinions of the Government. National Assembly deputies, senior cadres, experts, scientists and the people, finalize the draft law, ensure the successful construction of 3 special zones of Van Don, Bac Van Phong and Phu Quoc. national security and national sovereignty.

The Standing Committee of the National Assembly also requested the National Assembly to assign the Government to assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with the Standing Committee of the National Assembly in, directing the organization to study, collect opinions, revise the draft law and complete draft resolutions and projects on the establishment of special zones. report to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly for comments before submitting to the National Assembly for consideration and approval at the next meeting. Directing concerned ministries, branches and localities to strictly manage land use in the areas where the special zone is planned to be established, actively implementing the preparation work on resources and conditions to ensure the development of special economic zones. when laws and resolutions passed by the National Assembly can be implemented immediately. At the same time, strengthen the work of information, propaganda and clarification of issues of concern to the majority of voters and people to create a high consensus on the contents of the draft law.

Through the above actions, it can be seen that our Party and State have absorbed the opinions of all classes of people in a very quick and timely manner. The spirit of respecting the people and listening to the people was once again affirmed, not at all as the hostile forces agitated that ""the Party has decided, everything is over"". It is certain that in the coming time, the National Assembly will discuss it more carefully, the law projects will be considered more closely, and promptly absorb the opinions of a large number of people, without any harm to the people. National security.

Stay awake, alert and proactively prevent

When the law project has been postponed for careful discussion, the people's comments and problems will continue to be clarified and satisfactorily resolved. With such a reasonable policy that has been agreed and notified by the National Assembly and the Government in a timely manner, perhaps continuing to march, protest, cause trouble... is extremely unreasonable and unacceptable.

We have had regrettable lessons about the protests and marches that caused trouble, causing a lot of economic damage as well as social order and safety. Many workers and employees lost their jobs, a series of companies were destroyed, their properties were destroyed, their activities were paralyzed, many people were provoked and then were detained and tried in court; There were both dead and wounded from the marches that turned into scuffles…

Therefore, through the above incident, people once again need to be very vigilant, not to fall into the trap of bad forces to take advantage of the people's genuine patriotic feelings to incite mass gatherings, causing loss of life. public order, violate the law. Patriotism must be based on understanding the law and grasping the nature of the problem of social criticism. Must have a hot heart and a cold head, not to be taken advantage of, agitated, invisibly violate the law, abet the evil forces to destroy. Every citizen, cadre, and party member needs to uphold their socio-political responsibilities, say no to illegal gatherings and marches, properly exercise their democratic rights, and supervise and criticize society in accordance with regulations. provisions of law; be alert and say no to calls for marches, gatherings and demonstrations from social networks and floating leaflets and information, leading to law violations.

For those who violate the law who have committed acts of spreading information, inciting people, attracting gatherings and demonstrations, legal agencies should soon investigate, clarify, prevent and handle strictly from the root, not to repeat the complex sabotage scenarios as they have done before"	
"Lost, shameless when recently, someone waded against the stream of people cheering the victory of the Vietnamese football team at the AFF Cup, showing a picture of a girl holding a slogan against the ANM Law.

It's a single image. There are also some people who deliberately oppose by continuing to spread accusations to lower the role of the law and oppose the State. The law is considered a barrier to socio-economic development, dragging down economic growth.

It is not clear from where, on the Internet, analysis, comments, and judgments of ANM experts abroad about the backwardness of the contents of the law. The ""criticists"" and ""democrats"" at home and abroad continue to make provocations, asking the whole people to oppose the implementation of the law. The number of radical opposers considers the Law on ANM as an ""invisible hand"" with the aim of ""covering eyes, covering ears, closing mouth"" who are ""devoted"" for the development of the Vietnamese nation...

Looking at the legal documents and the drafts under the law, it can be affirmed: The ANM Law is intended to protect the security of the country, the strength of the society.

Vietnam has repeatedly had to deal with cybersecurity, threatening the safety of the network system and national security. In 2014, when the HD 981 drilling rig violated in the East Sea, the network system of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment was attacked by hackers on the data system on the sea and islands; Major diplomatic events that took place have been penetrated many times by malicious code... Or like the control system of our major international airports, it has also been attacked a number of times, seriously threatening safety. flights. Banks are attacked by hackers to appropriate millions of dollars, if not handled in time, the consequences are very serious.

Personal stories of many people when they had to notify each other were attacked by ""black"" to falsify the interface on the network. Many scams of ""invisible people"" who are lurking day and night to appropriate collective and individual property, including private and emotional secrets, have also been released online to influence and deceive messed up the lives of many people. Many distraught individuals have unjustly sought death. These enormous harms are due to the fact that we do not have an adequate legal framework to control them. The introduction of the ANM Law will overcome and limit some of those shortcomings.

The Internet in general and social networks in particular, besides its superiority, also have many disadvantages and harms that need to be sanctioned and handled.

The ANM Law and related documents promulgated by the State are to protect the normal activities of the country, and to protect the people's legitimate rights and interests.

In Articles 8 and Articles 16 to 22 of the law, it is clear that the acts are prohibited, the acts are against, there is nothing that restricts the right to restrict citizens from participating in information exchange on social networks. It is not even necessary to enact this law to restrict the citizens' freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and constructive legal opinions. The draft decree of the Ministry of Public Security submitted to the Government for promulgation has been made public and transparent on the portal, clearly stating the issues that people and the online community are concerned about. The network operators do not object, do not intend to withdraw from business investment in Vietnam as misrepresented by the bad guys.

A country with nearly 40 million individual accounts participating in social networks, but only a very small minority opposes, with impure motives. Those who are still wondering and worried about the limitations of the Law on ANM should study it carefully to observe and contribute to making the law work best for the country, social community and each citizen."	
"As we know, in the era of digital technology 4.0, the Internet and social networks are indispensable spiritual food for people. And in that so-called ""social network"", there are also many forms, and duality, or as many people often say, social networking as a double-edged sword is no exaggeration.

If not, why do we still have to try to censor our children when they are engrossed in surfing the web, participating in social networking sites. What do we wonder about? That is the fear when children fall into the dark web, which is not educational but encourages violence and debauchery. That's when social networks become a bad friend of children, a mirror that tarnishes their thoughts, life concepts, and personality...

Not only in our country but also in most countries around the world, network management is always a top concern. Any state must care about national security, the survival of the country. Next is to protect the citizens of their country in the best way. Perhaps among us, no one supports the fact that criminals thoroughly take advantage of the Internet's utilities, especially social networks, to conduct activities to infringe on security and order, causing instability in society. The problem is how the network management will be, as Assoc. Ho Chi Minh City, how to develop information technology, develop the digital economy in the 4.0 era and maintain national security in cyberspace.

The Law on Cybersecurity is expected to ensure a safe and healthy environment in Vietnam's cyberspace. Photo: Internet

Currently, many social network users are concerned that some websites such as Google or Facebook will no longer provide services to the Vietnamese market, so they turn to oppose the Law on Cybersecurity. While deliberately not understanding, the actual provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity for this issue like.

In Clause 3, Article 26 on ensuring information security in cyberspace, it stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam. Nam has activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam.

Many people oppose the regulation that must have a server located in our country. So, have any of us ever asked, which countries want to operate those sites, where are their servers located? Even the US, if they don't have servers in their country, will the websites be free to operate? The state manages and stores data, in addition to national security, it is also to protect its citizens.

From 2016 up to now, there have been tens of thousands of cyber attacks targeting our country's information system. Not to mention that the Internet is used to propagate, distort, incite activities against the State, insult personal dignity, fabricate information, cause economic and financial damage, and cause confusion. society.

FACEBOOK, GOOLE ACTIVITIES DO NOT BANNED

We are worried that the ""big guys"" on social networks like Facebook and Google will not pay attention to the Vietnamese market, and we cannot use these websites. But if we are calmer to see that, according to the data by the end of 2015, in Vietnam, Facebook is currently ranked No. 1 in terms of online revenue with sales of more than 3,000 billion VND (equivalent to 150 million USD). , Google is in second place with 2,200 billion VND (about 100 million USD), then we will understand, for those capitalists whose profit always comes first, with a market like that, will they ignore it? ?

In addition, many social network users also believe that the Cybersecurity Law infringes on their privacy when it is mandatory to provide information about their account when requested from the authorities. They think that the law has invaded too much about their privacy, personal information. But every day, even hourly, every minute, there are hundreds of thousands of users of social networking sites originating from foreign organizations, social networking sites that are not clear whether good or bad, in many different ways. Through devices, modern digital technology has stolen their personal information without their knowledge. This type of personal information is then sold, used for what purposes, how can we control it, when the websites are all overseas?

The Law on Cybersecurity is a framework, many laws such as Clause 3, Article 26 and many others, still have to wait for the Government to detail it by a decree guiding the implementation. And we, with our responsibility as citizens, should make constructive contributions, to make the law more complete, to make the Government's guiding decrees more specific and clear, not only protecting our owners. rights and interests of national security, but also to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.participate in cyber activities, ensuring to build a healthy cyber environment for ourselves"	
"“What will happen when the day of goodbye is approaching? Two of the four great powers that are loved by the whole planet - Facebook and Google are about to say goodbye to Vietnamese people because of the Law on Cybersecurity. The goodbye time is only counted in months. Substitutes appear to be available imported from another country.

Let's look back at the familiar logo that has been associated with many happy and sad memories in our spiritual life. It must be very difficult, emotionally, to get used to and use this upcoming fake product. Because slowly, youtube will also have to hit the road. We really don't mind using substitutes. The only worry is that calamity will befall this nation.”

The above excerpt was written on June 17, 2018 (five days after the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity) by a person who is quite famous on social networks and is the head of a book publishing company.

On May 20, 2021, on the occasion of the event that authorities discovered and arrested a large-scale fake book-making case, this person wrote on his personal page, as follows: ""Currently, Fanpage pages are running to sponsor and sell fake books day and night. of many units, authors and publishers have sent detailed lists and IPs to the Ministry of Public Security's network security"".

WHAT DOES THE ABOVE TWO PARTIES SAY?

First of all, after three years of the Cybersecurity Law passed by the XIV National Assembly, Vietnamese people living in the Vietnamese territory do not have to ""break up"" on social networking platforms. Likewise, there is no such thing as ""substitute products seem to be available imported from another country"" and there is no such thing as ""slowly youtube will have to go"".

In short, three years after the introduction of the Law on Cybersecurity, it proved that his statements were completely baseless and untrue. Before the Law on Cybersecurity was passed, he was one of the loudest (on social media) to oppose this important legal document.

As a ""public figure"", each of his short articles or comments attracts thousands, even tens of thousands of interactions. These unfounded, even ""paranoid"" information, judgments and comments spread very quickly on technology platforms, social networks, exponentially.

Three years later, ironically, it was none other than him who requested help from the authorities to apply the Cybersecurity Law to protect his publishing company from the problem of fake books and fake information in publications. Products.

After his opinion was raised (May 20, 2021), some readers, in the ""comments"" section, questioned him, as follows: ""In the past, opposed to the Cybersecurity Law, why are you praying now? save it?"" In the feedback section, he only answered the opinions in favor of himself, and the questions, he was silent.

OTHER FACTS RULES

When a new event occurs, it is possible to immediately make an initial assessment of that event, which is completely normal. But if you go too far, lack alertness, and feel too emotional, the normal will become abnormal. As of June 2018, most of the people who have a little bit of fame or are very famous on social networks loudly oppose this legal document.

These people include many elements, businessmen, journalists, writers, theater artists, artists ... cai luong, singers, even some lawyers also objected. Thousands, even tens of thousands of articles, not only at home but also abroad, not only individuals but also some news agencies broadcasting in Vietnamese... have drawn, or rather, they ""imagined"". ” gives an extremely gray picture of the “doomsday” of social networks in the territory of Vietnam.

Up to this point, the actual happenings prove that the above opinions have no basis, frankly, are wrong. Not only that, as once mentioned, it is the ""stars"" in the entertainment industry who once opposed the Cybersecurity Law, now they themselves have to ask for help from the competent forces to apply the law that they used to oppose. to punish those who humiliated them.

When the new Law on Cybersecurity was passed, in an interview published in Tay Ninh Newspaper, Mr. Trinh Ngoc Phuong, a member of the XIV National Assembly, affirmed that this law ensures economic development, does not infringe on the right to freedom. individual as many people misunderstand.

“The biggest goal of the Cybersecurity Law is to build a healthy cyberspace, ensure national defense and security, protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals, and agencies at home and abroad, and at the same time, contribute to economic development,"" Phuong said at the time of the interview.

Mr. Phuong said that European Union (EU) law has a more restrictive definition of what constitutes cybercrime, including access, system interference, data interference, illegal blocking. . Thus, cybersecurity encompasses many subjects related to criminal and civil law and the protection of honor or privacy as in the real world.

What matters here is the online dimension, where illegal acts are created and the implications in the digital world. In Europe, Germany has a regulation on Cybersecurity Law very early. In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law aimed atbetter protection for citizens and businesses in the digital age.

Germany's Cybersecurity Law requires companies and federal agencies to have a minimum network security standard, which must be certified by the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI). Companies must notify the Office of suspected cyberattacks on their systems. The law is relevant to sectors that are considered national “critical infrastructure”, such as transportation, healthcare, water, telecommunications providers, as well as financial companies and insurance.

In Singapore, the Cybersecurity Law enacted in 2017 allows the country's Cybersecurity Authority to monitor and manage the nation's cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Agency is authorized to take proactive measures to protect critical information infrastructure and rapidly respond to threats and incidents.

The Singapore government has listed 11 sectors as critical information infrastructure, including water, healthcare, maritime, telecommunications, information, energy and aviation. In addition, Singapore also signed a joint statement with Germany to strengthen cybersecurity cooperation between the two countries.

For Vietnam, why do we need to promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity? Vietnam is always in the group of countries with the most cyber attacks in the world. The state of information disturbance in cyberspace, distorting, smearing, slandering, insulting dignity, violating fine traditions and customs is rampant... Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is widespread. is necessary. That is the general trend, in the world there are 138 countries with Cybersecurity Laws, of which 95 are developing countries.

It is unlikely that the Cybersecurity Law will seriously damage the Vietnamese economy, or that Vietnamese businesses will fail due to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, as some people have said on social media recently. The Law on Cybersecurity will not generate sub-licenses, hindering the development of businesses, but on the contrary, can reduce costs if businesses set up content servers in Vietnam. Currently, Google and Facebook companies have placed many data storage machines in Vietnam.

Since the end of 2016, the Vietnamese Government has been negotiating with these carriers to agree to set up a representative office in Vietnam, but there is no specific regulation. Therefore, the new Government proposes to put this provision into law. On the other hand, the Law on Cybersecurity requires network operators to prevent information from attacking Vietnam's national security, attacking individuals' economic and political civil rights (Clause 1-Article 6).

From the foregoing, it can be affirmed that, three years after it was passed by the National Assembly, the Law on Cybersecurity has not infringed upon individual freedom, has not hindered economic development, nor has social network service providers leaving Vietnam. In the face of the ""turbulence"" on social networks recently, in fact, the Law on Cybersecurity, even needs to be born earlier."	
"The development of cyberspace along with the Fourth Industrial Revolution has brought enormous benefits in socio-economic development, as well as changing awareness, behavior and lifestyle. of human. However, besides the benefits, cyberspace also poses many risks and challenges, directly affecting the sovereignty, national security and social order and safety, the legitimate rights and interests of the people. organizations and individuals. Politically motivated cyber attacks on key information systems of countries are increasing, causing serious economic, defense and security losses. Cybercriminals are increasingly dangerous with many sophisticated and high-tech tricks, using malicious codes that apply artificial intelligence to attack and infiltrate. Cyberspace is becoming a favorable environment for foreign special agencies, individuals and terrorist organizations to contact, recruit forces, raise funds, spread anti-radical ideology, incite hatred hatred and violence.

Protecting national rights, interests and security in cyberspace and responding to new threats from cyberspace has become a global issue, identified as a core and vital content in the process. protection and development in many countries around the world. On that basis, countries have promulgated legal documents and established codes of conduct to regulate behaviors and social relationships in cyberspace, contributing to improving security protection capacity. network and prevent, fight and handle illegal acts in cyberspace. To date, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Cybersecurity Law. In the past 6 years, 23 countries have enacted more than 40 legal documents and sub-laws on cybersecurity. Typically, in September 2018, the US announced its Cybersecurity Strategy, which identified cyber security threats as the top threat to national security; declares readiness to respond with military measures if national cybersecurity is threatened or attacked. In December 2018, Australia enacted the Cybersecurity Law, which, in addition to emphasizing the importance of cybersecurity, also allows authorities to access encrypted data. of network operators.

Vietnam is in the group of countries with the fastest internet development in the world, and cyberspace in our country also presents many risks and challenges affecting national security and public order. society as a whole, namely:

- Enemy and reactionary forces have increased the use of cyberspace to sabotage ideology, sabotage internal affairs, carry out plots of ""peaceful evolution"", cause national conflicts, incite protests and violence. to transform political institutions in Vietnam.

- The problem of fake news, false information, bad news, toxic, damaging the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals is taking place seriously (1).

- Our country's network system is in the group of countries facing large-scale, high-intensity, serious and increasingly dangerous cyberattacks. Our country ranks 20th among the countries in the world where the network system is attacked by malware, 8th among the top 10 countries in the world in terms of local malware infection. From the end of 2015 up to now, 12,360 news sites and web portals with national domain names (.vn) of Vietnam have been attacked by hackers and changed their interfaces, including over 400 news sites and portals. electronic information of state agencies; There were 9,763 news sites attacked by foreign hackers and 2,597 news sites attacked by domestic hackers and groups (accounting for 21%).

- The situation of misappropriating information, revealing state secrets, revealing personal information of internet users is worrying.

- Criminal activities using high technology have increased in number of cases and sophisticated tricks, causing serious damage in many aspects and long-term consequences for society, including criminal activities, such as fraud. , online gambling organization (2).

- State management of cyberspace faces many challenges with new online services, such as online payment, e-commerce, online games, virtual currency business, multi-level business. . At the same time, it raises a number of issues about national security, the risk of payment insecurity, network information security, such as the risk of network information insecurity, which facilitates the enemy to collect information. Intelligence; the risk of tax revenue loss, loss of payment space sovereignty; The situation of unequal competition between enterprises operating in the field of payment, domestic and foreign payment intermediaries creates an ideal environment for criminals using high technology to commit crimes, infringing upon administrative order. economy and social order.

- The training of network security experts is still limited, not meeting the practical requirements set forth.

Therefore, building and perfecting the legal system on cyber security, especially the Law on Cybersecurity, is an extremely urgent requirement. This is an important legal basis in the prevention, fight and handling of crimesillegal activities in cyberspace, protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; creating a legal corridor to improve the protection of information systems important to national security, contributing to ensuring sovereignty, security and order and building a safe and healthy environment in cyberspace. .

Basic contents of the Law on Cybersecurity

Meeting the above practical requirements, the Law on Cybersecurity of Vietnam was passed by the XIV National Assembly at the 5th Session, with the rate of 86.86%, including 7 chapters and 43 articles, providing basic contents on security issues. protecting the network security for the national security information system; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. Detail:

First, stipulate the basic concepts and policies of the State on network security; principles and measures to protect cybersecurity and national cyberspace; international cooperation on cybersecurity; prohibited acts on network security; handle violations of the law on network security. This is the basis for determining the scope of struggle, measures to be applied, violations and ways to prevent and handle these acts as well as conduct research and perfect the theory of security. network.

Second, fully regulate network security protection activities for information systems important for national security. With the regulations on appraisal, inspection, assessment of conditions, response and remediation of cybersecurity incidents specified in Chapter II, the important national security information system is closely protected from inside. With measures to protect network security, deal with acts of cyberattack, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, appropriation of information belonging to state secrets, acts against and destroying the State are prescribed in Chapter 2 of this Decree. I, Chapter III, important national security information systems are protected from the outside. This is an important legal basis, demonstrating protection commensurate with the role of the national security information system.

Third, provide regulations to create a legal foundation in preventing, detecting, fighting and handling violations of the law, affecting national security, social order and safety, human rights and social security. and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, such as drafting and posting information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security, disrupting public order, humiliating or slandering; infringing upon the economic management order; using cyberspace for cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, appropriation of state secrets, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace; using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to commit acts of violating the law on security and order; This is a solid legal corridor for people to make friends, exchange, trade, do business or operate in cyberspace.

Fourth, focus on regulations on deploying cybersecurity protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, focusing on state agencies and political organizations, clearly stipulating the contents of deployment and inspection of network security for information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyberspace infrastructure, international network gateway are also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations and the synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of others will be dealt with severely; Cybersecurity violations will be detected and warned in a timely manner. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space The network is also regulated in detail, which is an important legal foundation for implementing current and future cybersecurity work.

Fifth, create an important legal basis to implement the State's policy on the protection of personal data and national data in cyberspace. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam that collect, exploit, analyze and process data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected Service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government of Vietnam. This is an important legal basis to improve the efficiency of state management, fight against crime in the face of complicated developments in cross-border service provision, e-commerce, money business. virtual, electronic money last time.

Sixth, creating a legal basis for the work of securitydeploying network security protection activities, building and forming a specialized force for network security protection capable of meeting the requirements of the actual situation, prioritizing training high-quality cybersecurity human resources . Focusing on education, training and dissemination of cybersecurity knowledge to agencies, organizations and individuals with the goal of participating in a safe and healthy cyberspace, minimizing risks and negative impacts. , maximize efficiency.

Seventh, clearly stipulate the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals when participating in activities in cyberspace, focusing on determining the responsibilities of the specialized cybersecurity protection force located at the Ministry of Public Security. Police, Ministry of Defense.

Groups of measures to protect network security

To protect national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates four groups of measures to protect network security, including group network security measures; group of administrative measures; group of investigation and prosecution measures according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code; and a group of other measures as prescribed by law. Detail:

First, the group of network security measures, including 7 measures:

- Cybersecurity appraisal is the activity of reviewing and evaluating the contents of network security to serve as a basis for deciding to build or upgrade an information system.

- Assessment of network security conditions is an activity to consider the network security response of an information system before it is put into operation and use.

Cybersecurity inspection is an activity to determine the current state of network security of an information system, information system infrastructure, or information stored, processed or transmitted in an information system in order to prevent , detect and handle threats to network security and propose plans and measures to ensure the normal operation of the information system.

- Cybersecurity monitoring is the activity of collecting and analyzing the situation in order to identify threats to network security, network security incidents, weaknesses, security holes, malicious code, and malicious hardware for warning. report, fix, handle.

- Responding to and overcoming network security incidents for information systems is the activity of detecting and identifying network security incidents; protect the scene, collect evidence; blockade, limit the scope of network security incidents, limit damage caused by network security incidents; identification of targets, objects and scope of rescue; verify, analyze, evaluate and classify network security incidents; implementing plans to respond to and overcome network security incidents; cause verification and traceability; investigate and handle according to the provisions of law.

Fighting for the protection of network security is an organized activity carried out by a specialized force for cybersecurity protection in cyberspace in order to protect national security and ensure social order and safety.

Use of cryptography to protect network information means cryptographic measures to protect network information when transmitting information and documents containing state secret content in cyberspace.

Second, group of administrative measures, including 5 measures:

- Prevent, request to suspend or stop providing network information;

- Suspend, temporarily suspend activities of establishing, providing and using telecommunications networks, internet, radio transmitters and receivers;

- Request the removal of illegal or untrue information;

- Blocking, restricting operation, suspending, temporarily suspending or requesting to stop operation of information systems;

- Revocation of domain names.

Third, the group of investigation and prosecution measures according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, including:

- Electronic data collection activities related to violations;

- Procedures for prosecution, investigation, prosecution and trial according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.

Fourth, the group of other measures, including those prescribed by the National Security Law, such as people mobilization, diplomacy, economy, science - technology, profession, and armament; provisions of the law on handling administrative violations, such as administrative sanctions (warnings, fines), additional penalties (deprivation of the right to use permits, confiscation of material evidences of violations), measures to Other measures (forcibly shutting down, suspending, temporarily suspending, forcibly restoring the old state, forcibly deleting, removing, or destroying information and information content)"	
"“The ratification of the cybersecurity law is aimed at creating a safe and healthy cyberspace, protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals online, and ensuring national security as well as social order and safety,"" the ministry's spokesperson Le Thi Thu Hang said in a statement.

Hang stressed that the law, which was ratified last month, was passed with high approval rate after going through multiple rounds of discussion and open, transparent consultations involving lawmakers, experts, businesses and the general public.

Seventeen U.S. lawmakers on Wednesday urged the CEOs of tech giants Facebook and Google to resist changes stipulated by Vietnam's new cybersecurity law in the name of ""promoting openness and connectivity.""

In a letter to the two CEOs, the lawmakers said the issue would be raised diplomatically and at the highest levels if the Vietnamese government coerces the two companies to ""aid and abet censorship.""

In response, Hang reaffirmed Vietnam's consistent policy to provide favorable conditions for foreign businesses and investors to operate in Vietnam.

“As in any other country, the activities of foreign businesses and investors should comply with the laws of the host country,” the spokesperson said in a statement.

Additionally, she said freedom of speech is a right enshrined in Vietnam's Constitution and is being practiced.

“The state of Vietnam always respects and facilitates the rights of its citizens to exercise freedom and democracy but is resolutely against the abuse of those rights to commit illegal activities,” Hang added.

Vietnam's cybersecurity law was approved by a majority vote in the country's top legislative body, the National Assembly, on June 12 after 86 percent of MPs present voted in favor.

The new law, which will take effect in 2019, bans internet users from organizing, encouraging or training other people for anti-state purposes.
They are not allowed to distort history, negate the nation’s revolutionary achievements, undermine national solidarity, offend religions and discriminate on the basis of gender and race.

The law also requires foreign businesses to open representative offices in Vietnam and store their Vietnamese users' data in Vietnamese territory.

Businesses will have to provide users’ data to the Ministry of Public Security upon receipt of requests in writing, in cases where any infringement of the cybersecurity law is being investigated."	
"Mr. Tran Quoc Tu, Deputy Head of Document Inspection Department (Ho Chi Minh City Department of Justice) commented on removing the content ""prohibited by the press from re-posting unverified information from the internet"" at point c, clause 2, article 57 of draft.

Draft Law on Cybersecurity: Comment to remove 'banning the press from re-posting unverified information from the internet' - Photo 1.
RELATED NEWS
More than 4,600 pages, portals hacked by hackers
In the first 6 months of 2017, the whole country had 4,605 ​​information pages with national domain names being blocked
hacker attack
or hijacking, an increase of nearly 50% over the same period in 2016.

Reason: this provision is not compatible with the provisions of Article 9, Clause 3, Article 13 of the Press Law (the Press Law does not provide for this behavior - PV), violates the right to press freedom and freedom of the press. responsible for the journalist's information; at the same time posting information from the internet that is not verified is not directly related to national security...

Draft Law on Cybersecurity: Comment to remove 'banning the press from re-posting unverified information from the internet' - Photo 2.
Mr. Tran Quoc Tu spoke at the conference
PHOTO: TRUNG Hieu
Point c, Clause 2, Article 57 of the draft states: Directing news agencies and newspapers to increase propaganda and public opinion, and prohibit the press from re-posting unverified information from the Internet.

“In case the publication affects national security, there are sanctions and handling of posting defamatory and slanderous information… But this is the right of the press. If the law interferes, it will not be synchronized. Even the press itself has verified it when publishing it,"" said Mr. Tu.

Many delegates said that the introduction of a Cybersecurity Law is necessary because currently online information affects the political, social, and economic situation and needs to be tightly controlled so as not to be taken advantage of or influenced. .

As for Article 27 on handling cyber security violations, many delegates said that it is necessary to have a specific level of handling, avoiding general regulations.

A representative of Ho Chi Minh City Police said that with the current online virtual space, it is very difficult to deal with cyber security violations. There are cases of violation identified, but when checking, the server is located abroad, so it is difficult to handle."	
"Speaking at a discussion in the hall on the Cybersecurity bill this morning (November 23), delegate Nguyen Thi Kim Thuy (Da Nang) gave many reasons that it was not necessary to have this law because of the coincidence. consistent with the contents prescribed by previous laws.

According to this delegate, talking about the necessity, the draft law gives 10 reasons but they are not convincing. For example, the first 3 reasons are ""for national security"", according to Ms. Kim Thuy, there is an adjustment of the National Security Law. As for the field of network information protection, it is also regulated in the Law on Cyberinformation Security. ""The provisions of the two laws of National Security and Information Security have covered the issue of cyberinformation security, assuming that some regulations are still omitted, they can also be additionally reviewed,"" said delegate Thuy. expressed.

Similarly, the three reasons related to the important information system of national security are specified in chapter 2 of this bill, according to Ms. Thuy, just concretizing guidance on information security regulations. network in Chapter 2 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security and Decree 85 guiding the law. On the other hand, the concept of an important national security information system in Article 3 of the bill also overlaps with the concept of a national important information system in Article 3 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security. ""Therefore, it is recommended that the Government and the National Assembly carefully consider whether there is a need for a separate law or only amend the Law on Cyberinformation Security and National Security,"" the Da Nang delegation said.

Regarding the unification with the legal system, according to Ms. Kim Thuy, if there is more of this law, it will lead to a matter of two management agencies, both overlapping and potentially making it difficult for the people. For example, Article 9 of the draft Cybersecurity Law stipulates that the Government stipulates in detail the list of important information systems for national security while Clause 2, Article 26 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security stipulates The Ministry of Information and Communications shall assume the prime responsibility for coordinating with other ministries to develop a list of important national security information systems and submit them to the Prime Minister for promulgation.To do this, in May 2017, the Prime Minister issued Decision 632. If this law is passed, it will definitely have to amend the Law on Cyberinformation Security, amend Decision 632, otherwise, there will be 2 ministries to jointly manage this issue, ""said Ms. Thuy.

Similarly, another example cited by the female delegate is Clause 3, Article 11 of the draft Cybersecurity Law, which stipulates the Ministry of Public Security to assess the capacity and conditions for enterprises providing cyberinformation security services to customers. national security system. But before that, Clause 1, Article 44 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security also assigned the Ministry of Information and Communications to preside over the appraisal and issue licenses for trading network information security products and services. ""That is, a service-providing enterprise has to be assessed twice for its business capacity and conditions by two different management agencies. This not only makes administrative procedures cumbersome and unreasonable but also leads to If the appraisal results of the two management agencies contradict each other, if the enterprise only receives one license, the appraisal of the other ministry has no meaning. The license of 1 ministry does not make sense,"" said delegate Thuy.

Add more uncertain or cumbersome Cybersecurity law! - 1 . photo
RELATED NEWS
'Getting' Google, Facebook to set up servers in Vietnam, domestic enterprises are at a disadvantage
Not only the business community is concerned, even experts are expressing concern and insecurity about the draft Law on Cybersecurity when discussing at a seminar organized by the Digital Media Association on November 21.

Still according to NE Thuy, Article 16 of this bill stipulates the assessment of conformity with regulations on cyber security for information systems important for national security, while the assessment of conformity with standards and regulations on information security is required. Network information has been specified in Article 39 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security. If the Law on Cybersecurity is passed, a product will be assessed for conformity twice. ""This means that the National Assembly will violate the principle of 1, only assigning one agency to assume the prime responsibility for implementation and take the main responsibility"", Ms. Thuy emphasized.
In addition, with the conformity of the draft law with international treaties, according to Ms. Kim Thuy, Article 34 of this draft stipulates that network service providers must set up servers in Vietnam, which is contrary to the organization's commitments. WTO organization and Vietnam - EU trade agreement, because according to these commitments, cross-border telecommunications services are not limited to market access, except in some specific cases, but in the cases of exclusion. It also does not stipulate that there must be a representative office in the territory of Vietnam."	
"The most disturbing thing is that the scope and subject of regulation of two laws: the 2015 Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security and the Draft Law on Cyber ​​​​Security, there is no clear delineation.

Specifically, the Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security stipulates: “Information system is a collection of hardware, software and databases established for the purpose of creating, providing, transmitting, collecting and processing manage, store and exchange information on the network”. The draft Law on Cybersecurity states that ""National cyber infrastructure is a system of equipment serving the creation, transmission, collection, processing, storage and exchange of information"". Meanwhile, in other countries, in legal terms, the concept of ""cyber security"" is used with the same meaning for an object: ""cyberspace"".

Debating the draft Cybersecurity Law: Trampling, overlapping and wasteful - photo 1
RELATED NEWS
Debating regulations forcing Google, Facebook to set up servers in Vietnam
Regulations on foreign enterprises such as
Google, Facebook
When providing internet telecommunications services in Vietnam, the server representative agency must be the most ""hot spot"" when the National Assembly discusses the Cybersecurity bill on the morning of November 23.

The same subject of regulation, but the new draft stipulates that the Ministry of Public Security is the state management agency and the focal point for certification and licensing of national cybersecurity standards and regulations. Meanwhile, the Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security 2015 assigns that job to the Ministry of Information and Communications, the conflict of authority from the overlapping scope of regulation is very clear.

For example, when a network incident occurs, there is a conflict of clues in the matter of rescue. The Law on Cyberinformation Security, Article 14, Clause 4, Point b stipulates: The Ministry of Information and Communications shall assume the prime responsibility for coordinating emergency response work to ensure national cyberinformation security. But the draft Law on Cybersecurity says: The Ministry of Public Security coordinates activities to respond to and remedy cybersecurity incidents that occur to information systems important to national security or when emergency situations occur. on network security, network security incidents... (Article 20, Clause 4). So will the enforcement agencies listen to the Ministry of Information and Communications or the Ministry of Public Security?

Also, if the certification of technical-regulation conformity is not amended, when the law takes effect, if it is required to certify the technical-regulation conformity, the enterprise needs to ""find whom""? If you have to find both sets for 1 license, assuming the decision is ""contradictory"", which agency will arbitrate ""right and wrong""? Enterprises will receive enough, be embarrassed when implementing, incur additional costs; and at the same time bear the legal risk of being controlled by both ministries.

While the Government is upholding the spirit of innovation, reducing costs for businesses; encouraging high-tech development and technology start-ups - the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law have the potential to put ""nails"" under the carpet. The law therefore may not achieve the goal of ensuring national security and safety; at the same time creating a new wave of ""migration"" of enterprises to other countries for business registration which is both convenient and safe.

Debating the draft Law on Cybersecurity: Trampling, overlapping and wasteful - photo 2
RELATED NEWS
Add more uncertain or cumbersome Cybersecurity law!
Delegate Kim Thuy thinks that we already have 2 solid locks for safety
network information
, if you add 1 key but give it to another person to hold the key, is it more cumbersome or more secure?

""Birth"" more licenses

According to international experience, no country has introduced two separate concepts of cyber security and safety. However, Article 37 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security stipulates that the Ministry of Information and Communications is responsible for: developing a draft national standard for cyberinformation security; promulgate national technical regulations on cyberinformation security; regulations on assessment of conformity with cyberinformation security…

Meanwhile, the draft Law on Cybersecurity, Clause 1, Article 14 continues to stipulate: The Ministry of Public Security shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with relevant agencies in, developing a draft national standard on cybersecurity, proposing appraise... assume the prime responsibility for elaborating and promulgating national technical regulations on cyber security for information systems important for national security in accordance with law.

According to the words written on the draft Law on Cybersecurity, hardware and software device manufacturers may be required to ""apply"" for certification that their products meet security standards. Vietnam network security. Without a “licensed” that confirms compliance, they will not be able to bring the product to market.

From the point of view of hardware dealers, it is a risk of adding costs to the importer, ultimately falling on the consumer. Because Vietnamese enterprises hardly produce hardware, but have to import. So with global business firms like Apple, for example, will they produce their own iPhones that meet ""Vietnamese standards""? Most likely not, and importers will have to do it. Here, another question is also raised, whether Vietnam's ""testing"" facilities are capable of inspecting a complete product like an iPhone."	
"On December 31, 2019, Ho Chi Minh City Department of Information and Communications (TT-TT) held a conference on state management on grassroots information activities in 2019.

At the conference, Mr. Tu Luong, Deputy Director of the Department of Information and Communications, said that out of more than 14 million social media accounts in Ho Chi Minh City, about 11 million regularly interact, thus requiring communication. information and communication must be aimed at social network users.

Some localities have established fanpage as an information channel to the people and receive a large amount of interaction and follow-up such as District 9, Phu Nhuan District, Tan Binh District to help the government assess the satisfaction level of customers. people for direction and administration.

According to Colonel Luu Thanh Long, Deputy Head of Internal Political Security Department (Ho Chi Minh City Public Security), it is noteworthy that many social network users are violating the Cybersecurity Law without even knowing they are violating it.

Mr. Long cited that singer Dam Vinh Hung's online call to beat people in Tien Giang could be handled for inciting others to cause disorder. Or like the spread of social media users, sharing hot clips related to singer Van Mai Huong in recent days has also violated the Law on Cybersecurity.

Mr. Long recommended that information and propaganda need to be associated with specific events so that people can better understand the prohibited acts when using social networks."	
"At the state management briefing on grassroots information activities in 2019 organized by the Department of Information and Communications on the morning of December 31, Senior Colonel Luu Thanh Long, Deputy Head of Internal Political Security Department, City Public Security, said many Social network users are violating the Law on Cybersecurity without even knowing they are breaking the law.

Colonel Long said that over the past time, there have been many activities taking advantage of social networks to commit violations of law and order.

Citing the case of Dam Vinh Hung calling for beatings
Citing the case of Dam Vinh Hung online calling for beatings in Tien Giang, Mr. Long said that it is a violation to go online to call for beatings and incite others to cause trouble; the caller is the mastermind and will probably be dealt with. The Law on Cybersecurity, effective from January 1, 2019, specifically lists prohibited acts and users can be handled if violated.

""Like the case of spreading 5 clips of singer Van Mai Huong, how to let people know if sharing and distributing these content is against the law and will be handled,"" Mr. Long said.

Sharing a 'hot' clip Van Mai Huong is a violation of the Law on Cybersecurity - Photo 1
Mr. Tu Luong (standing), Deputy Director of Ho Chi Minh City Department of Information and Communications said that the whole city has more than 14 million social media accounts.

Photo: Sy Dong

2020 - the pivotal year of managing social network users
Tu Luong, deputy director of the Department of Information and Communications, said the city has more than 14 million social media accounts, 11 million of which are constantly interacting. Many districts have actively set up fanpages to provide information to the people. This is an important database for the government to assess the positive and negative aspects of the direction and administration through information sent to the grassroots.

Besides, many fanpages with many interactions and big followers, such as: District 9, Phu Nhuan, Tan Binh ... have helped the grassroots information work have many highlights and positive effects; Measuring what people need, satisfied or not and that is the highest goal of the city government.

Mr. Tu Luong said that in order to manage information on social networks, the Department of Information and Communications alone cannot do it, but requires the participation and support of many forces, especially the Ministry of Information and Communications. The Department of Information and Communications has determined that 2020 is a pivotal year to implement and advise the city to manage social network users"	
"On the afternoon of April 9, Mr. Nguyen Viet Van, Director of the Department of Information and Communications of Lam Dong province, said that he was verifying that the couple took nude photos at the national scenic site of Tuyen Lam Lake (Da Lat). Accordingly, the functional department of the department is identifying the people who made the nude photos and posted the offensive images on the social networking site for handling according to the Cybersecurity Law.
Taking and posting nude photos in Da Lat on the internet: Will be handled according to the Law on Cybersecurity - Photo 2
A nude photo of a couple
PHOTO: SCREEN CAPTCHA
Mr. Van said that because people took pictures and posted them on social networks in Hanoi, the department is asking the Hanoi Department of Information and Communications to coordinate in handling this case.
In order to prevent similar incidents, Mr. Van suggested that the Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism of Lam Dong province direct the management units of tourist areas and landscapes, etc. to strengthen the management. People who do tourism services such as boat rentals and miniatures should also say no to those who use their services to do ridiculous things that are not suitable for fine customs."	
"Many artists and celebrities have been taken advantage of by some people to take advantage of their images and impersonate to cheat and profit... From January 1, 2019, the use of other people's images without permission has affected their reputation. , great loss to that person will not only be handled according to the civil law but also will be handled under the criminal law, especially will be handled under the Cybersecurity Law.

Possible criminal prosecution
Impersonating artists and celebrities will be handled under the Cybersecurity Law - Photo 1
Cyberspace is the connection network of information technology infrastructure, including telecommunications network, internet network, computer network, information processing and control system, database; is a place where people perform social behaviors that are not limited by space and time. Therefore, each individual must be aware of the use of the network, to avoid violations under this new law
MR NGUYEN MINH TRANG
According to lawyer Nguyen Thi Minh Trang (belonging to the Ho Chi Minh City Bar Association), according to the law, individuals have rights to their own images, so the use of an individual's image must be approved by that person. Except where the image is used for the national interest, ethnicity, public interest, or the image is used from public activities. It is strictly forbidden to use images of other people that infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of the person having the image.

According to LS Nguyen Thi Minh Trang, before the Cybersecurity Law took effect, the civil law also clearly stipulated that the use of other people's images was not for the national, ethnic, or public interests. , or using images from public activities without the consent of that person, is a violation of individual rights to images, as provided for in Article 32, Civil Code 2015.

The person whose image is used has the right to request the court to issue a decision to compel the infringer, relevant agencies, organizations and individuals to withdraw, destroy, terminate the use of the image, and pay compensation for damage. harm and apply other handling measures as prescribed by law.

“If it is found that personal rights (in terms of image and reputation) are infringed, the civil law is clearly defined in the past. Now the Law on Cybersecurity is now more specific, ""said LS Nguyen Thi Minh Trang.

How to handle the behavior of the violator in this case? According to LS Nguyen Thi Minh Trang, the competent agency will investigate, consider and depending on the nature and extent of the violation as well as the consequences, the violator may be administratively sanctioned. or may be prosecuted for criminal liability.

Acts of impersonation, slander, humiliation... will all be handled
According to LS Nguyen Thi Minh Trang, according to Article 8 of the Cybersecurity Law, if someone humiliates, slanders as well as seriously insults the honor, reputation and dignity of others online; Untrue information that infringes upon the honor and reputation or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of others will be handled.

At the same time, the Cybersecurity Law also clearly states that it is strictly forbidden to use cyberspace to forge websites of agencies, organizations and individuals.

Impersonating artists and celebrities will be handled under the Cybersecurity Law - Photo 3
RELATED NEWS
Infographic Infographic 14 easy-to-complicate violations of Cybersecurity law, as of January 1, 2019
Clause 3, Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that if information on cyberspace contains humiliating or slanderous content, including: seriously offending the honor, reputation and dignity of others; fabricated and untrue information that infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals will be handled. Organizations and individuals that draft, post, and distribute information in cyberspace with the content of this regulation must remove such information at the request of the network security protection force and take responsibility according to regulations. prescribed by law according to Clause 9, Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity.

LS Nguyen Thi Minh Trang added that if you realize that other people are impersonating, seriously infringing on honor, dignity and reputation, you can file a complaint against the behavior of the image infringer to the competent police agency. .

According to Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity, depending on the nature and seriousness of the violation, violators will be disciplined, administratively sanctioned or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law."	
"The draft is posted on the website of the Ministry of Public Security together with the draft decision of the Prime Minister promulgating the list of important information systems for national security as well as the list of these information systems.
This is the second draft, completed on October 31, 2018 and according to information from the website of the Ministry of Public Security, the draft decree will be consulted within 2 months from the date of publication.

There are systems, monitoring equipment with information systems

The draft decree consists of 6 chapters, of which Chapter 1 is the general regulation, Chapter 2 stipulates the establishment of a list, coordination mechanism, and conditions for protecting information systems important to national security, including: 3 items.

In particular, Section 1 is the regulation on the establishment of a list of important information systems for national security. Section 2 stipulates the coordination in the appraisal, inspection and supervision of information systems on the two lists of important information systems for national security (specified in the Law on Cybersecurity) and the list of information systems important to national security. national important information system (as defined in the Law on Information Security). Section 3 provides for network security conditions for information systems important for national security.

In Section 2, in the examination of information systems in both lists (an information system important for national security and an information system of national importance), the draft decree of the Ministry of Finance The police assigned the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security to take the lead in the inspection.
Particularly, the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of National Defense will assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with, inspecting network security and cyberinformation security for military information systems on the list of important information systems for security. national security.

As for the monitoring stage, the draft decree stipulates that the owners of information systems important to national security must arrange ground and technical conditions for setting up and connecting monitoring systems and equipment. of the network security force into its information system.

In case there is a monitoring authority, the data from the facility monitoring devices must be shared with the network security task force.

Regarding appraisal, the draft decree states that, when establishing, expanding or upgrading an information system, the information system owner must send a dossier of request for appraisal of the plan to ensure network information security for the force. specialized network security protection agency under the Ministry of Public Security and the state management agency in charge of information security of the Ministry of Information and Communications.

Store data and set up branches and offices in Vietnam

The draft decree in chapter 4 regulates the storage of data and the setting up of a branch or representative office in Vietnam.

Accordingly, the data that must be stored in Vietnam includes: data about the personal information of service users in Vietnam, including: full name, date of birth, place of birth, nationality, occupation , title, place of residence, contact address, email address, phone number, identity card number, personal identification number, citizen identification number, passport number, insurance card number Social media, credit card numbers, health status, medical records, biometrics.

In addition, data created by service users in Vietnam, including: information choosing to upload, sync or import from devices; data about the relationship of service users in Vietnam, including: friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts is also data that must be stored in Vietnam.

Accordingly, domestic and foreign enterprises providing one of the services on the telecommunications network, the internet, value-added services in cyberspace have business activities in Vietnam, including: telecommunications services; data storage and sharing services in cyberspace; providing national or international domain names to service users in Vietnam; ecommerce; online payment; payment intermediary; transport connection services through cyberspace; social networks and social media; online video games; email.

In addition, businesses that collect, exploit, analyze and process various types of data in accordance with regulations or allow service users to perform prohibited acts in cyberspace or violate other laws and regulations. regulations on ensuring security in cyberspace are prescribed in the Law on Cybersecurity.

The Minister of Public Security will require enterprises to store data and set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam. Time to store data about personal information of service users in Vietnam according to the time of business operation or until the service is no longer provided. Other information must be kept for at least 36 months."	
"Mr. Giang Son, Standing Vice Chairman of the Office of the President, read the Order of the President on the promulgation of 7 laws just passed by the National Assembly, including: National Defense Law (approved by the National Assembly on June 8). ; Competition Law (adopted on June 12); Law on Denunciations (passed on June 12); the law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Physical Training and Sports (adopted on June 14); Law on Surveying and Cartography (adopted on June 14); Law on Cybersecurity (passed on June 12); the law amending and supplementing a number of articles of 11 laws related to planning (adopted on June 15).
The laws are all effective from January 1, 2019.

At the press conference, answering questions from the press regarding the plan to develop and issue decrees and guidelines for the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law, Mr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, said that currently Currently, the drafting committee has held a meeting with the Ministry of Justice to prepare for the development of decrees and decisions of the Government guiding the implementation of this law. It is expected to be submitted to the Government in October for consideration and approval.

In addition, before public opinion that some provisions of the Cybersecurity Law restrict people's freedom and democracy, the Director of the Cybersecurity Department affirmed that this law does not limit the freedom and democracy of people. citizen. All the things that are not prohibited, according to the 29 articles of the Penal Code, the direct laws, related laws and other laws, all activities of the people are protected by the state.

October will submit to the Government decrees guiding the Law on Cybersecurity - Photo 1
Mr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan presented notable points of the Cybersecurity Law at the press conference
LE HIEP PICTURE
Previously, in his presentation, Mr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan also said that the Law on Cybersecurity was carefully and meticulously prepared, with the participation and comments of ministries, functional branches, more than 30 businesses. large domestic telecommunications and information technology enterprises such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV, many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, and the United States Business Council. United States - ASEAN, Asia Cloud Computing Association, foreign representative agencies such as the US, Canada, Australia, Japan... and the public opinion.

According to Mr. Thuan, currently, Vietnamese user data in cyberspace has been widely used, for the purpose of profit, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage, even used for political purposes or to break the law.

“In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Cybersecurity Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services. In the cyberspace in Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on service user relationship, data collected by service users in Vietnam. Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the time prescribed by the Government,” said Mr. Thuan"	
"Also attending the meeting were Major General Ngo Tuan Nghia, Political Commissar of the Ho Chi Minh City Command; Mr. Phan Nguyen Nhu Khue, Deputy Head of the Ho Chi Minh City National Assembly Delegation and Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phong, Chairman of Ho Chi Minh City People's Committee.
At the meeting with voters, President Tran Dai Quang said that the Law on Cybersecurity is of great interest to many people. The State President affirmed that besides advantages, the development of the internet brings many negative consequences. Therefore, it is necessary to manage to limit negativity and deal with network security risks.

“The Cybersecurity Law also aims to ensure the rights of internet service users; to prevent and fight to defeat the enemy's intentions in inciting and dividing the great national unity bloc; preventing cyber terrorism, appropriating State secret information and documents in cyberspace, etc. The law's provisions also aim to publicly and transparently handle activities that infringe upon the interests of cyber security of bad actors. ”, added the President.

State President Tran Dai Quang said that in the past time, the Politburo and the Secretariat also discussed and requested the strict development of the Cybersecurity Law in the direction of protecting the interests of citizens and not obstructing the interests of the people. According to international practice, there are currently 18 countries that require providers to store data in the country where the carrier's services are used. State President Tran Dai Quang affirmed that the Law on Cyber ​​Security, passed by the National Assembly with 86.86% of votes in favor, shows that ensuring network security is extremely important.

Also at the meeting, voter Le Sy Dau (District 4) commented that in the past time, there have been many bad actors taking advantage of cyberspace to entice people to gather and cause trouble, so it is necessary to take measures to control them. talent, handle strongly with these objects.

Voter Doan Dinh Dung (District 1) said, voters are very welcome when the authorities handle those who cause trouble."	
"To implement the Resolution of the National Assembly, since November 2016, the Government has established a Drafting Committee, including representatives of the ministries of Public Security, National Defense, Information and Communications (TT-TT), Industry and Trade... Construction still follows Decree 72 regulations on setting up servers. So this is not a new rule. During that process, we all received representatives of Google, Facebook, the American Business Association - ASEAN, the Asia Cloud Computing Association... Through the exchange, they did not have any other opinions. I have not heard any information from them about withdrawing from Vietnam. I also want to add, like Facebook, they announced in Vietnam there are 48 million accounts, I think this number is even larger. While in Singapore it is only 5 million. With such market share, will they leave? While this is also the main revenue in their business activities in Vietnam.

So there is feedback from international organizations and companies that this (the regulation on setting up servers) will violate the international commitments that we join?

There is no information about Google and Facebook leaving Vietnam due to the Law on Cybersecurity - Photo 2
RELATED NEWS
Cyberspace - benefits and challenges: Creating a healthy, equal environment
I have been in contact and listened to the opinions of diplomats. They say every country has an exception. I affirm that I have never violated international agreements.
Many people think that the regulation on setting up a server and some new points in the law will cost businesses more, especially foreign enterprises?

Why do we take care of them but not domestic enterprises? You just go and ask Viettel, VNPT... to see what they say to get the correct answer. Of course, not every type of business must have a data server or must have a representative office or branch in Vietnam.

Sir, what domestic enterprises as well as users worry about is the fear of revealing, leaking personal information, protecting personal secrets when the law gives great power to authorities, such as forcing service providers to provide user information?

We have heard reports that security agencies monitor all personal accounts. Not. We only ask the carrier to provide it when there are signs of law violation.

But what exactly is the ""sign of violation"", sir?

Article 17, then article 26 stipulate the responsibility of protecting user information, if you do not keep it confidential, you will be handled. Enterprises only provide information when there is a written request from the agency in charge of cyber security protection of the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense in investigating law violations. For example, we see on the Internet that there is an exchange of information showing signs of buying and selling explosives, will you let me do it?

The Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Law also stipulate that when there are signs of law violation, the competent authorities have the right to investigate, then they must get involved, must evaluate the information should ask the agency about internet provided. But evaluating that information is not a violation, there are specialized agencies. For example, for information about culture, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism is the agency that determines whether there is a violation. Similarly, information about information security is waiting for the conclusion of the Ministry of Information and Communications. The specialized agency of the Ministry of Public Security will base on that appraisal content, so it cannot abuse its power. Individuals and organizations that take advantage of it to infringe on personal interests will certainly be handled. Like someone using it to gamble is against the law and has been severely punished.

What about you saying that many businesses worry about leaking information? It is the businesses that are storing your data a lot and they have leaked and leaked the information. So, when you were in a meeting, you received a message to buy land to buy a house, when you were about to go to the airport, there was a message inviting you to ride ... highway, it was because the business was not managing information well. They have nothing to worry about.

Expert Nguyen Si Dung, former deputy head of the Office of the National Assembly, said: ""National security is to protect the nation, network security is to protect the network. Using the Cybersecurity Law to protect national security is a mistake about the object of the law. What is your personal comment on this view?

This, within the scope of the law, has been said very fully, that is, acts of using cyberspace that are harmful to national security. If Mr. Si Dung reads this, he will definitely agree with me."	
"Responding to Thanh Nien's question regarding two bills that received different opinions at the 5th session of the National Assembly, namely the Law on Cybersecurity and the Law on Special Economic Zones, in which the Law on Special Economic Zones was postponed by the National Assembly for approval. passed at the next session, and the Cybersecurity bill was passed with a high number of votes, National Assembly Secretary General Nguyen Hanh Phuc affirmed that the nature of these two bills is different.
According to Mr. Phuc, regarding the Law on Cybersecurity, when there were discussions, opinions and feedback from experts, voters, the National Assembly listened a lot. After that, the verification and drafting agency has absorbed and adjusted a lot. ""Once the opinions of the National Assembly members have been fully absorbed, it is natural to pass with a very high percentage of votes,"" Phuc said, adding that it is important to communicate to the people to understand. .

“The opinion that when the Law on Cybersecurity is passed, it will affect the business of businesses or the interests of people, it is not. On the contrary, this law is to protect the interests of businesses and the interests of the people,"" Phuc affirmed, at the same time, saying that the special zone law project has many problems, much broader than the Law on Cybersecurity, Therefore, the National Assembly considers it necessary to step back to have time to discuss and study more.

Facebook, Google have not yet responded to the Cybersecurity law

Discussing more about the recently passed Cybersecurity Law, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong, Standing Committee of the National Assembly's National Security and Defense Committee, said that during the process of verifying and revising the bill, the National Defense and Security Committee had listen carefully to the opinions of voters and experts. Many issues in the draft law submitted by the Government have been absorbed and adjusted to meet the requirements of network security.

General Secretary of the National Assembly: 'Cybersecurity Law will protect businesses and people' - photo 1
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong discussed at the press conference on the afternoon of June 15
LE HIEP PICTURE
Mr. Hong affirmed that it is not possible that the Law on Cybersecurity will affect businesses in the field of providing telecommunications and internet services. On the contrary, this act creates a legal mechanism to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals, domestic and foreign enterprises.

According to the Standing Committee of National Defense and Security Committee, up to this point, Facebook and Google have not had any feedback on the recently passed Cybersecurity Law.

The Reuters reporter continued to question Mr. Hong, saying that the Cybersecurity law requiring businesses to store data in Vietnam would cost businesses such as Google and Facebook. Besides, Facebook and Google both provide many services for Vietnamese businesses. Therefore, if these two companies are affected, Vietnamese businesses will also be affected.

Hong said, according to government data, there are currently 18 countries that have required social network service providers to store data in that country. This is a necessary requirement to both protect national security and ensure the legitimate rights and interests of citizens as stipulated in the Constitution.

The Government is actively preparing the Law on Protests

The reporter of Thanh Nien Newspaper continued to question whether there was an opinion that from the recent violent and mass gathering incidents that occurred in Binh Thuan and Khanh Hoa, it showed that it was necessary to develop a Law on Protests or a Law on Protests. about the Association, however, up to now, these two laws have not been on the agenda of the National Assembly even though they have been mentioned for a long time.

Answering this question, National Assembly Secretary General Nguyen Hanh Phuc affirmed that the National Assembly Standing Committee is also very interested in the Law on Protests. In 2016, when developing the 2017 Law and Ordinance Program, the National Assembly Standing Committee requested the Government to soon complete this bill to report and submit to the National Assembly Standing Committee and the National Assembly for approval. idea.

“Currently, the Government is actively preparing. When the Government completes it, it will report to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly and the National Assembly for comments,"" Phuc affirmed."	
"The development of social networks makes an important contribution to socio-economic development, but also creates a favorable environment for activities of influence, political transformation, and terrorism in many countries and territories. The development of artificial intelligence has been creating outstanding scientific and technological achievements, playing an increasingly important role in many areas of social life, but is also forecasted to cause ""catastrophe"". ""if not strictly controlled. The increasingly popular internet-connected devices not only bring great benefits to human life, socio-economic development, and ensure national defense and security, but also can be used to conduct activities. large-scale cyber attacks. Targeted cyberattacks (Advanced Peristent Threat (APT)) can not only sabotage important national security targets and works, but also appropriate information and confidential documents, appropriate for use. use big data systems, fast data for political purposes and criminal activities. Countries around the world are urgently carrying out activities to improve national capacity and potential in cybersecurity, such as promulgating strategies and policies, including developing legal documents on cyber security. In just the past 6 years, 23 countries around the world have enacted more than 40 legal documents on cybersecurity.
Many challenges in ensuring network security

In Vietnam, in addition to the benefits it brings, it also poses many challenges in ensuring network security, specifically: Vietnam is always in the group of countries with the most cyber attacks in the world. such as online fraud, gambling, gambling organization, prostitution brokerage, arms and drug trafficking..., information disturbance in cyberspace, disinformation, libel, slander, etc. Infringement of dignity, violations of fine customs and traditions are rampant..., the national cyber infrastructure has many gaps and weaknesses.

Faced with the urgent requirements of the cyber security situation in protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety; overcome basic shortcomings and limitations in network security protection; fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, basic rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland, draft Law on Cybersecurity assigned to develop by the National Assembly and the Government from the end of 2016. basis of Resolution No. 22/2016/QH14 of the XIV National Assembly on the program of law and ordinance development in 2016, 2017. When submitting to the XIV National Assembly for approval at the 5th session, the draft content of the Security Law The network has received a majority of opinions, affirming the necessity of developing and promulgating a Law on Cybersecurity in the current actual conditions and situation of Vietnam. The Ministry of Public Security has coordinated with the National Defense - Security Committee and the National Assembly's Law Committee to urgently absorb, revise and complete the draft Law on Cybersecurity, which has just been passed by the National Assembly at this session. June 12, 2018.

Comply with the Constitution and the current legal system

The Law on Cybersecurity defines cyberspace as a new field with profound impacts on all aspects of social life. Acts in cyberspace can harm all subjects and objects such as independence, sovereignty, national security, social order and safety, state secrets, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. organizations and individuals. Cybersecurity protection includes not only purely technical activities, but also the simultaneous application of professional and technical measures to prevent, fight and handle acts in cyberspace. Therefore, the scope of regulation of the law includes all contents related to cyber security in the field of national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. This scope does not conflict, affecting the scope of network information security, because the object, object, goal and method should be the content and activities of network security work to prevent, combat and combat. fight and handle violations of the law, while cyberinformation security is to ensure the ""availability, integrity and confidentiality"" of information. However, it should be determined that network information security or network security are closely related, inseparable and in the same cyber environment, so there will be similar technical measures. together.

With the scope of regulation of the law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyberspace environment will be assured of safety and health, minimizing factors and risks of infringing upon the rights and interests of citizens. and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals such as personal information theft, fraud, property appropriation, slander, humiliation, libel attacks, restriction of malicious code, gradual elimination of acts gambling, betting, propagating depraved cultural products inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace, protect children in cyberspace... Personal data is currently considered by many countries as national property,has infinite mining value; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with legal provisions and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.

Clearly specifying measures to protect network security will ensure that the provisions of the Constitution and the current legal system are strictly complied with. At the same time, it serves as a legal basis for specialized forces and cyber security forces to apply when implementing cybersecurity protection, prevention and handling of law violations. The order and procedures of these measures are strictly regulated in legal documents, cannot be used to commit illegal acts, or control users, control privacy. . Authorities only apply these cybersecurity protection measures to prevent, detect, collect evidence, fight and handle law violations. The collected data is managed in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code on evidence and other information security regulations of our country such as the Ordinance on Protection of State Secrets."	
"Before the National Assembly voted to approve the Bill, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly (the Standing Committee of the National Assembly) had a report explaining, accepting and adjusting the Bill. Accordingly, in addition to the scope of the law project, it still includes national security and social order and safety, and a number of other contents are stated in the Report.

Regarding the inspection of network security for the information systems of agencies and organizations (Article 24), the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has received opinions of the delegates, considering the test case when there is a request for state management of security. Network security for stricter, more specific, avoid abuse.

Accordingly, Article 24 stipulates that the information systems of agencies and organizations that are not on the list of information systems important for national security will be inspected in two cases:

""When there is an act of violating the law on cyber security infringing upon national security or seriously harming social order and safety""; and ""At the request of the information system administrator"".

Objects of network security inspection include: Hardware systems, software, digital devices used in information systems; information is stored, processed and transmitted in the information system; measures to protect state secrets, prevent and combat the disclosure and loss of state secrets through technical channels.

The draft also stipulates that, before the inspection is carried out, the network security protection force shall notify in writing the information system owner at least 12 hours.

Network security test results are kept confidential according to the provisions of law.

The bill assigns the Government to prescribe the order and procedures for network security inspection specified in this article.

Regarding ensuring information security in cyberspace (Article 26), it is suggested to remove the regulation on responsibility of ""establishing information authentication mechanism"" or add ""requiring to provide personal identification number"". for authentication” at point a, clause 2; There is an opinion that the regulation ""providing user information to the network security protection task force"" at point a, clause 2 is easy to be abused, so it is suggested to clearly define the application case.

Acquiring this opinion, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed to amend the regulations on the responsibility of agencies and organizations to ""verify information when users register for digital accounts"", while building an information authentication mechanism is the responsibility. of the Ministry of Public Security.

In addition, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly said that ""clearly stipulating that the school providing information at Point a, Clause 2 is to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security and to amend the regulations on keeping track of records. Sign the system to serve the investigation and handling of violations at Point b, Clause 2, for clarity, feasibility, and avoidance of abuse in implementation.

If these forces take advantage of or abuse their prohibited powers (in Clause 5, Article 8), depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, they will be severely handled and if they cause damage, they must pay compensation as prescribed. shown in Clause 7, Article 4 of the draft.

Accordingly, this Clause 7 stipulates that ""all acts of violating the law on cyber security must be handled promptly and strictly"".

Some comments are still concerned with the provisions at point d, clause 2, which stipulates that enterprises must store data in Vietnam, because they think that this regulation does not guarantee the feasibility, increasing the costs of enterprises. foreign countries, causing difficulties for information access activities and contrary to international commitments to which Vietnam is a member.

Accordingly, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly said that the basic agreements of the WTO and the CPTPP Agreement have exceptions on security; therefore, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing online services to store in Vietnam important data of service users in Vietnam; at the same time, it is required that foreign enterprises participating in these activities have their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam.

To date, more than 18 member countries of the WTO (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France) have mandated the storage of data within their national territory, according to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly.

Currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong and Singapore. If the provisions of this law take effect, it is possible for these businesses to move cloud computing (virtual servers) to Vietnam to open a data center in Vietnam.

""Where the data center is located in Vietnam, although it increases the cost of the business, it is a necessary regulation to meet the requirements of our country's network security. On the other hand, the company's business activities Foreign enterprises as well as the use of services by domestic agencies, organizations and individuals also have more advantages; if there is an interruption, it will be handled faster; the authorities will manage better manage the business activities of these enterprises; when there is a breach of network security, the coordination in handling information and violations will be more effective and feasible"", the report of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly said. .

According to the explanation and absorption report, based on the provisions of this law and the actual situation, the Government stipulates a specific scope of enterprises to apply this regulation, so it will not basically obstruct traffic. data flow, does not affect normal operationg of other agencies, organizations and businesses, including start-ups.

Having suggested to narrow and concretize the types of data that need to be stored in Vietnam, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly directed the removal of regulations on storing important data related to national security; at the same time, concretize important types of data of service users in Vietnam.

Accordingly, Clause 3 of the bill stipulates that ""domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, distributing analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for a period of time. according to the regulations of the Government”. “Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam”. The Government shall detail this clause.

By taking votes of the delegates on this provision, 358/437 delegates agreed with the provisions of article 26 ."	
"On the afternoon of June 11, the results of the voting of the delegates on Article 10 - Important information system for national security, and Article 26 - Guarantee of information in cyberspace, were sent to the National Assembly deputies.

According to Thanh Nien information, the ballot was sent to the National Assembly deputies in the morning of June 11, and the results were available in the afternoon of the same day.

The written notice of opinions to the National Assembly deputies clearly states: under the direction of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly sent votes to the National Assembly deputies for opinions on Article 10 and Article 26 of the draft. Cybersecurity Law. As of 16:00 on June 11, the Secretary General of the National Assembly has received 437 return ballots.

With the provisions in Article 10 on important information systems for national security, 392 delegates (accounting for 89.70%) agreed, 41 delegates (accounting for 9.38%) disagreed and 4 delegates have a different opinion or have no opinion.

With Article 26 - Ensuring information security in cyberspace, 358 delegates (accounting for 81.92 %) agreed, 73 delegates disagreed (accounting for 16.70 %) and 6 delegates said other opinion or no opinion.

Tomorrow (June 12), the National Assembly will vote to pass this bill.

It is known that in the latest draft law just sent to delegates, the scope of the law still includes activities to protect national security and social order and safety, because through summarizing opinions, The majority of members of the National Assembly agreed with this.

Regarding the inspection of network security for information systems of agencies and organizations (Article 24), many National Assembly deputies also expressed concern, so the National Assembly Standing Committee directed to omit Clause 1. on network security inspection of information systems of agencies and organizations that are not on the list of information systems important for national security; adjust the regulations on inspection in Clause 2 of the subject of network security inspection more closely, more specifically when there is a violation of the law on network security or at the request of the owner of the information system. ; concretize the order and procedures for network security inspection.

Regarding Article 26, the National Assembly Standing Committee has directed to amend the provisions clearly stating that the case of providing information is to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security and to amend the regulations on tracking information. system log to serve investigation and handling of violations for clarity, feasibility, avoid abuse in implementation.

Receiving comments from the National Assembly deputies proposing to narrow and concretize the types of data that need to be stored in Vietnam, the National Assembly Standing Committee has directed to remove the regulation on storing important data related to the data storage in Vietnam. National security; at the same time, specify the types of important data of service users in Vietnam that need to be stored.

In addition, the National Assembly Standing Committee has directed to additionally regulate the storage of this data in Vietnam only for a certain period of time according to the Government's regulations to avoid costs for businesses, and at the same time remove points. dd Clause 2 of the draft Government submitted to avoid abuse"	
"Specifically, VDCA proposes to abolish, amend and supplement regulations that increase business costs for businesses, causing negative impacts on long-term economic growth.

Specifically, in Clause 3, Article 39 of the bill, enterprises are required to suspend or stop providing digital devices, network services and network applications to ensure national security, social order and safety as required. of the competent state agency. According to VDCA, this regulation is not clear enough and risks seriously infringing on the interests of businesses and people. Therefore, this Association recommends that it is necessary to clearly and specifically regulate the case of suspension or suspension; specifying the order and procedures for implementation. In case of cessation or suspension of operation of an enterprise, the authority to request such cessation or suspension must belong to the Court (judicial agency) and not to administrative agencies.

Businesses have to bear additional costs

At point c, clause 2, article 26 of the Cybersecurity bill, enterprises providing internet services and telecommunications services stop providing services to customers for the reason that users post information on the Internet. propaganda content that is against the State, incites riots, disrupts security or disturbs public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management. The VDAC said that the identification of the acts listed in the law is not clear enough, this regulation may cause risks and infringe upon the basic political and economic rights of citizens.

Points a and b, Clause 2, Article 26 of the bill require businesses to have a mechanism to authenticate digital accounts or remove or prevent information sharing. This regulation, according to VDAC, is not feasible for enterprises, in many cases causing loss of technological competitive advantages; increasing enforcement costs for Vietnamese startups in global competition, as they have to lower standards for protecting information and user data.

In addition, VDCA proposes to remove regulations on data localization (set up a server, save data in Vietnam). According to economic analysis, if strict implementation of regulations on data storage, setting up servers in Vietnam (as specified at point d, clause 2, article 26), can reduce 1.7% increase GDP growth, 3.1% decrease in foreign investment in Vietnam.

After revisions, the draft Law on Cybersecurity submitted to the 24th session of the National Assembly Standing Committee changed the language and spelling, thereby not directly requesting to set up servers and data in Vietnam, but instead requires ""stored in Vietnam for personal information of service users in Vietnam"". This, according to VDCA, still has the legal implication that the data and servers must be located in Vietnam.

VDCA proposes to cancel the above regulation for the following reasons: negative impact on economic development through restrictions on international data exchange; increase costs, reduce the ability of domestic enterprises to take advantage of technological development. According to VDCA, although the direct costs of implementing this regulation may fall to the group of foreign enterprises, indirect costs will be distributed to the entire Vietnamese business and economy, affecting the environment. business investment, reducing investment attraction for foreign enterprises in Vietnam. This is likely to violate international commitments Vietnam is a member.

The practice of enforcing regulations in other countries, especially Indonesia, also shows that this regulation is both difficult to enforce in practice and makes it difficult for businesses, while effectively protecting security The actual network is not enhanced.

The draft Law on Cybersecurity will be submitted to the National Assembly and discussed in the hall on May 29, and is expected to be approved at this session."	
"The Prime Minister commended the forces to ensure safety and cyber security for closely following the situation, making efforts to do well in their tasks, contributing to making Vietnam ranked 25th out of 194 countries and territories, 7th in Asia. - Pacific, 4th in ASEAN in terms of cyber safety and security.
On the afternoon of April 7, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, Head of the National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety, chaired the first meeting of the Steering Committee to comment on the results of activities in 2021 and work directions for the year. 2022 of the Steering Committee; discussed a number of key, strategic and important issues on national cybersecurity and safety. Attending the meeting were General To Lam, Minister of Public Security, Deputy Head of the Standing Committee; Minister, Chairman of the Government Office Tran Van Son; Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung.

At the meeting, the Prime Minister praised the forces to ensure network safety and security for closely following the situation, trying to do well in their tasks, contributing to bringing Vietnam to the 25th out of 194 countries and territories, 7th. Asia-Pacific region, 4th in ASEAN in terms of cyber safety and security. However, there are still issues that need more efforts, such as investment in safety and network security that is not commensurate with the assigned tasks; the coordination between agencies is still limited, international cooperation has not brought into full play its positive effect; and the state of revealing state secrets...

The Prime Minister emphasized the need to promptly grasp and effectively take advantage of opportunities brought by cyberspace for socio-economic development, and at the same time proactively prevent and be ready to respond to limit negative impacts. to further strengthen the protection of network safety and security for the national cyberspace...

The Prime Minister asked to firmly grasp the situation, improve forecasting ability, adjust and supplement tasks and solutions in a timely and appropriate manner. Review, build and perfect institutions on network safety and security. Allocate resources and finance, consider investment for network security as investment for development.."	
"On the morning of December 7, at the Presidential Palace, Politburo member, State President Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Chairman of the National Defense and Security Council chaired the first meeting of the National Defense and Security Council for the 2021-2026 term.
Attending the meeting were Politburo members, National Defense and Security Council members: Pham Minh Chinh, Prime Minister, Vice Chairman of the council; Vuong Dinh Hue, President of the National Assembly; General To Lam, Minister of Public Security; General Phan Van Giang, Minister of National Defense…

On behalf of the council, President Nguyen Xuan Phuc, chairman of the council, praised the military, police and diplomatic forces for their important contributions in the prevention and control of the Covid-19 pandemic during the period. past time…

In the coming time, the Chairman of the Council suggested that the army, police and related forces continue to closely coordinate and cooperate to effectively implement the guidelines and directions of T. The Party Central Committee, the National Assembly, the Government, and the National Steering Committee on Covid-19 prevention and control, ensure the motto of safe, flexible adaptation and effective disease control...

The State President and Council President emphasized that in the coming time, the army and police forces need to continue to comprehensively, synchronously and effectively implement measures, especially perfecting the exchange and sharing mechanism. information and coordination process between forces in ensuring network security and cyber warfare. Along with that is the resolute handling of malicious information that is against the Party and State"	
"According to Neowin, the report was issued by Canalys after more data was breached in the past 12 months than in the last 15 years combined. Ransomware attacks are on the rise, with hospitals being the main target. Due to the blockade order due to Covid-19, many businesses have taken measures to do business online, which adds to the problem of network security.

Commenting on the new report, Canalys lead analyst Matthew Ball said: “Cybersecurity must be at the heart of digital plans, otherwise there will be a mass extinction of organisations, which would lead to this will threaten the economic recovery after Covid-19. The distraction from cybersecurity has had major consequences, leading to an escalation of the current data breach crisis and an increase in ransomware attacks.”

According to Canalys, investment in cybersecurity is now higher than in other segments of the IT industry last year. Cybersecurity spending increased 10% to $53 billion. Areas that excel in cybersecurity are maintaining business continuity and improving employee productivity.

For individual companies, Zoom achieved the fastest increase in revenue when growth reached 300%, Microsoft Office 365 maintained double-digit growth. Laptop shipments hit record levels, and Logitech saw webcam sales explode as people started making more Zoom calls. Wi-Fi router sales are also reported to have increased by 40% as more people have to work from home.

Canalus wants businesses to increase spending on cybersecurity because otherwise businesses could go bankrupt due to the money they are forced to spend on data recovery."	
"Ransomware (ransomware)
The type of enterprise ransomware that blooms in 2020 in terms of both the object and the level of danger. They expand the target of attacks to hospitals, medical and financial institutions, and essential infrastructure facilities to increase pressure and ransom value. However, the level of understanding and vigilance about this type of malicious code for small, medium and micro enterprises is still limited.

A report from Coveware shows that Ransomware favors SMEs with less than 100 employees when the number of attacks on this group accounts for 55%. The vast majority of SME ransomware victims tend to pay ransom to get back important data. A new feature of 'Ransomware 2.0' is that they not only encrypt ransom data, but also blackmail victims to prevent that data from being published online.

Scams via email and mobile messages
The old but always useful way helps hackers through loopholes and mistakes of employees or even important figures in the business to infiltrate the network, steal financial information and business data. Statistics from Abnormal Security show that the number of phishing emails masquerading as invoices and payments increased by 81%, causing an average loss of $81,000 per phishing attack.

It is worth noting that the method of phishing via mobile messages with links (link) is easier to deceive victims into subjectively clicking on the link on smartphones (smartphones) rather than on computers, so it begins to be disclosed by hackers. waterfall.

New level of distraction from cyberattack
According to security firm Kaspersky, APT cybercriminal groups forge modules disguised as the work of another author to deflect attention and investigation, as is typical in the case of Olympic Destroyer. Other notable attack campaigns such as MontysThree and DeathStalker, especially in the case of DeathStalker, have incorporated authentication metadata from Sofacy into their infrastructure, followed by secret transactions to distract those who are not. allegations.

Worrying cybersecurity risks in 2021 - Photo 1
Hackers are still deploying many different methods to attack users

Photo: Boxblue

Responding to information security threats
According to Mr. Ngo Tran Vu, Director of NTS Security, ""The Covid-19 pandemic forces SMEs to apply remote working mode for employees and this is a big risk for business information security"".

“Remote workers often have a subjective mentality in accessing sensitive business information. They can access business accounts from vulnerable public Wi-Fi networks. Devices such as computers or smartphones they use are also not as protected as computers or devices at the office that are maintained by the IT team. Therefore, businesses need to have instructions for employees at all levels when working remotely, training and regular instructions on safe methods when connecting to common data of the enterprise,"" said Mr. Vu.

“A safe remote working deployment plan and response scenario when an information security incident occurs is essential for SME businesses,” emphasized Mr. Vu, “In addition to computer protection solutions, If you are constantly exposed to the network environment, the parallel backup method offline and online on the cloud platform will help limit the risk like with ransomware."""	
"The State Bank of Vietnam requires organizations to strictly strengthen the security and safety of the banking information system.

Strictly implement the implementation requirements in official dispatches and announcements about cyber attack campaigns, new types of malicious code, security holes in the information system that have been approved by the State Bank of Vietnam and other agencies. warning.

Strengthening measures to monitor, monitor activities and logs of important information systems such as Corebanking, ATM, Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, portals, websites and other important systems to promptly detect and handle possible attacks early and notify the SBV for handling and coordination. At the same time, proactively implement or hire the service of reviewing and assessing the safety and security of information systems, especially important information systems to promptly detect and overcome weaknesses, remove malware, spyware, targeted attacks"	
"Kaspersky's TI report brings together in-depth analysis of industry-specific security threats, as well as identifying the type of information that can be exploited by hackers to attack vehicles, facilities and equipment. connected vehicle infrastructure and vehicle related systems.

Many cases point to an interest in security in the auto industry. The interest of independent researchers to cybercriminals has shifted from embedded device security to media security. This leads to an increase in the number of attack methods, from which new requirements and regulations that manufacturers must follow to protect against cyber attacks are also born.

Kaspersky's cybersecurity threat intelligence service for the automotive industry helps organizations, from manufacturers to suppliers, stay up-to-date on security issues that can affect automobile industry, from which to come up with a timely remedy. The service is designed to identify existing and emerging automotive cybersecurity threats - threats that attack vehicle components and connected vehicle infrastructure. .

Each report includes an overview and analysis of technology trends related to cyberattacks in the automotive industry, such as cyber incidents, recent security studies, conferences, seminars, forums in the automotive industry. community, as well as information on potential attack vectors for customer support and service infrastructure. The main services provided are executive summary reports, threat descriptions and recommendations, as well as notifications of high-risk activities and vulnerabilities. exclusive to OEM (original equipment manufacturer).

Sergey Zorin, Head of Transport Systems Security at Kaspersky, said: “As the use of technology in modern vehicles becomes widespread, we need not only comply with requirements, regulations security, but also information about all possible threats - from vulnerabilities in electronic controls to attacks on vehicle components. By providing relevant cybersecurity threat intelligence, we help car manufacturers address these concerns."	
"One of the largest cybersecurity companies in the United States has said that it has become the victim of a ""foreign government-sponsored"" cyberattack to steal internal tools, which which is used by FireEye to test the ability to penetrate other companies' systems to evaluate their security capabilities.

FireEye CEO Kevin Mandia stated, “We have recently been attacked by a highly sophisticated force whose technical and disciplined practices lead us to believe it was an attack by the foreign government. outside behind. This attack is different from the tens of thousands of security incidents that we have encountered and responded to over the years,” but Mandia did not say when the attack occurred.

FireEye has many customers in the national security system both in the US and abroad. After this information was disclosed, the US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency (CISA) published a quick bulletin to advise cybersecurity experts to promptly update the incident and plan a plan. cope with.

The company says no zero-day exploits have been stolen (zero-day is an unpatched vulnerability). There is also no evidence that the tools were used in practice or that whoever was behind the attack was able to obtain any customer data. But just to be on the safe side, FireEye has shared countermeasures that can detect or block the use of their stolen tools. The countermeasures have been made public by FireEye on GitHub, which is also working with Microsoft and the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate the incident. The FireEye CEO added, ""We're not sure if the attacker intended to use our Red Team tools or publicly disclose them.""

According to The Washington Post, APT29 (also known as Cozy Bear) - a group of hackers believed to be related to Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, is likely behind the attack. APT29 was reportedly hacked into the servers of the US Democratic National Committee before the 2016 presidential election, a Microsoft spokesman said, ""this incident demonstrates why the security industry has to do it. working together to protect and respond to threats posed by government-sponsored adversaries with novel and sophisticated attack techniques"". The New York Times assessed this as the largest theft of cybersecurity tools since the US National Security Agency was attacked by a group of hackers known as The Shadow Brokers."	
"Earlier, on the afternoon of October 24, on the fanpage of VTV24 News Center, VTV confirmed that this was a fake clip: ""We would like to confirm that this clip is a composite product"".

“Specifically, in the news of 24h Motion broadcast on the evening of October 17, the character standing next to singer My Tam is an old woman living in a flood area who was given gifts by the female singer. However, the clip being shared was replaced with Huan's photo. During the news of Motion 24h on the evening of October 17, there was no mention of Huan"", the content was posted on the fanpage of VTV24 News Center.

Huan ""rose"" fanpage has a green tick, has more than 1.3 million subscribers. Currently, this fanpage has removed the above clip.

In the past few days, Huan's fanpage ""rose"" continuously posted a call to support the flood compatriots in the Central region, along with the announcement of the account number with Bui Xuan Huan's name.

Who is Huan Hoa Hong, why do you often talk about morality and have to go to rehab?

Last July, Bui Xuan Huan (35 years old, native of Yen Bai) was fined 17.5 million VND by the Department of Information and Communications of Hanoi City for publishing two books The First to make money and Business Secrets without permission. Online business only teaches how to make money quickly.

From 2015 until now, many people have known Huan ""rose"" as a wanderer on social networks, regularly livestreaming, posting clips showing off money, gold, etc. online and receiving many followers.

Huan ""rose"" was discovered by the Police of Binh Thanh District (HCMC) in collaboration with the Police of Ward 22 (Binh Thanh District) to be positive for drugs at a hangout in the area of ​​Ward 22. . Huan ""Rose"" was sent to drug addiction treatment."	
"As organizations have had to shift to working from home, they have moved much of their business to digital platforms, significantly increasing the risk of cyberattacks.

Therefore, the challenge to be solved is to ensure secure remote access and protect access to enterprise systems, while keeping core business functions running without interruption, as well as as a way to keep your business safe from cybercrime.

According to the analysis results recently released by Microsoft, the company conducted a survey of nearly 800 business leaders from the UK, US, Germany and India to better understand the extent of the influence of the digital world. Covid-19 to the future cybersecurity landscape, including their budget, staffing and investment plans.

Accordingly, cloud computing technology and Zero Trust security architecture based on digital empathy will become the main solution for businesses.

As security evolves and expands security policies, with enhanced user experience and increased remote productivity top priorities, business leaders must ensure they are quickly fully equipped. necessary tools to support employees to work safely and efficiently.

To enhance user experience and increase work efficiency, digital empathy technology platforms are important, to help businesses analyze, evaluate internal state, perceive, understand and predict. The thoughts and feelings of others communicate through digital devices.

In addition, businesses invest heavily in multi-factor authentication (MFA) - guaranteed to reduce the chance of accounts being compromised by up to 99.9%.

In addition, the Zero Trust security model also helps to enhance network security for businesses. With three key principles: explicit verification, use of least privileged access, and presumption of violation, each access request is fully authenticated, authorized, and encrypted by Zero Trust before granting access. import. As a result, security holes are detected and filled, reducing the risk of network intrusion.

According to Microsoft, more than 51% of business leaders are accelerating the implementation of the Zero Trust security model.

In addition, relying on the use of software-based security tools to monitor and protect the flow of information into and out of the cloud resources, cloud security aids in planning of the scenarios. cybersecurity risks and contingency plans as well as addressing global cybersecurity threats.

Microsoft research revealed that organizations using traditional technology are significantly more vulnerable to attacks (36%) than in the cloud. At the same time, nearly 40% of enterprises said they are prioritizing investment in cloud security to reduce the risk of cyberattacks, 28% of enterprises focus on data, another 26% focus on information security. information and anti-phishing tools"	
"The analysis results revealed about 1,300 files with similar names to popular meeting applications such as Zoom, Webex and Slack. Online meeting apps provide a way for people to easily connect via video, audio or text when face-to-face meetings are not possible. However, hackers will not pass up this opportunity to spread cybersecurity threats under the guise of popular applications.

Out of 1,300 files, 200 threats were detected. The most popular are the two families of adware DealPly and DownloadSponsor.

Threats to network security in online meeting applications - Photo 1
Percentage of files distributed under the guise of popular online meeting software

Screenshots

Both software families are installers that display ads or download adware modules. These are software that often appear on users' devices when they are downloaded from unofficial sources.

While adware is not a type of malware, it can still pose a privacy risk. Currently, Kaspersky products have successfully detected and blocked DealPly and DownloadSponsor.

In addition to adware, Kaspersky experts found threats disguised as .lnk files. In fact, most of the malware discovered was called Exploit.Win32.CVE-2010-2568 - a fairly old but still widespread malware that allowed hackers to infect more computers.

The meeting application that holds the ""dominant"" position that cybercriminals use most to spread cybersecurity threats is Skype. Kaspersky experts found 120,000 suspicious files using the name of this application. Moreover, unlike others, the name of this application is used to distribute not only adware, but also various malware - especially Trojans."	
"In fact, in recent years, with the development of science and technology, cyberspace has become an indispensable component and plays an important role in building an information society and economic development. knowledge for the world in general and Vietnam in particular, but there are also huge potential risks. In our country, cyberspace and some types of information technology services and applications are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to carry out plots to abolish the political regime. The situation of false information, humiliation, slander of organizations and individuals is widespread. Cyber ​​terrorism emerges as a serious threat to national security. Criminal activities in cyberspace are increasing in number of cases and sophisticated tricks causing serious economic damage, affecting ideology, culture and society. In addition, important national security information systems have not been identified and protected by commensurate measures. The situation of revealing and leaking state secrets through cyberspace is very worrying, many documents belonging to state secrets are published on cyberspace...
Although there are legal documents on acts on the network environment such as the Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security 2015, the Criminal Procedure Code 2015, there are still cases of violations that lack sanctioning sanctions. has a regulatory framework to regulate, or the data stored on the computer system has not been recognized as legal evidence to determine illegal behavior. Therefore, the promulgation of a legal document specializing in cyber security is extremely necessary to ensure the security of national sovereignty, and to establish social order and safety in cyberspace; promptly supplement the Party's guidelines and policies and the State's laws on cybersecurity.
Regarding protection measures, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates measures to protect network security including: Appraisal, assessment of conditions, inspection, supervision, response, troubleshooting, fight for network security ; use cryptography to protect network information, prevent, request to stop providing network information; suspend or temporarily suspend activities of establishing, providing and using public telecommunications networks, private telecommunications networks, the Internet, the production and use of radio transmitters and receivers in accordance with regulations. under the law; request the deletion, access or deletion of illegal or untrue information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety; collect electronic data related to activities that infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace; blockade and limit the operation of the information system; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name in accordance with the law; prosecute, investigate, prosecute, adjudicate, apply preventive measures, coercive measures, measures to collect evidence in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code and other measures as prescribed by law. the law on national security, the law on handling of administrative violations.
One of the particularly important contents of the Law is the protection of network security for information systems important to national security. Accordingly, fully stipulating protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system, specifying criteria for identification, related fields, and stipulating measures such as appraisal network security, assessment of conditions, security inspection and supervision, and response and troubleshooting of network security incidents for information systems important to national security.
In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted a chapter (Chapter III) to fully stipulate measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. opportunities to threaten, detect and handle violations of the law, including: prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets, and personal information in cyberspace; prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security. This is a solid legal corridor so that people can safely do business, do business or operate in cyberspace.
Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of network security protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations and regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, gatewayinternational network connection is also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations, synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of Others will be dealt with severely. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter.
Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even being used for political conspiracy. rule or violate the law. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on the telecommunications network, the Internet and valuable services. increase in cyberspace in Vietnam with activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by users Services created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.
Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law fully stipulates the contents to ensure the implementation of network security protection activities, identifies a specialized force for network security protection, prioritizes training of high-quality cyber security human resources, attach importance to education, training and dissemination of knowledge about network security.
With such a purpose, meaning and effect, the Law on Cybersecurity was born not only as a necessary legal framework in the 4.0 technology era but also as an urgent requirement to ensure a safe environment against threats. permanent damage in cyberspace, both in terms of technology and information content"	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the XIV National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 5th session on June 12, 2018 with the approval rate of 86.86% of the delegates, with the symbol number 24. /2018/QH14. The Law takes effect from January 1, 2019, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.
With the scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safer and healthier than before, minimizing factors and risks. opportunities to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: having personal information stolen; being deceived, appropriating property; being slandered, humiliated, attacked and defamed; restrict malicious code; gradually eliminate acts of gambling, betting, propagating depraved cultural products, inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace…; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.

According to Clause 1, Article 2 of the Law on Cybersecurity: “Cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of the State. laws of agencies, organizations and individuals"". From this concept and through studying the contents of the Cybersecurity Law, it can be seen that the Cybersecurity Law directly protects the following five human rights: (1) The right to life, the right to individual freedom; the right to equality before the law and to be protected by the law; (2) The right to be free from interference in privacy, family, residence or correspondence; (3) The right not to be infringed upon the honor or reputation of the individual; (4) Citizens' right to freedom of thought, belief and religion; (5) Citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. The protection of these rights is reflected in the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law as follows:

Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity provides for prohibited acts in cybersecurity such as: (1) Acts of using cyberspace, information technology, and electronic means to violate the law on national security family, social order and safety; Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Distorting history; false information, etc. (2) Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or sabotaging information systems important to national security, etc. (3) Producing, distributing using tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, etc. (4) Opposing or obstructing operations of the network security protection force; illegally attacking or disabling network security protection measures; (5) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations, individuals for personal gain. This provision represents protection when participating in cyberspace activities against malicious information that infringes upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their lawful rights and interests. With the prohibited acts in the Cybersecurity Law that clearly show equality before the law, these acts are no exception to anyone, domestic or foreign individual. In contrast, these prohibited acts clearly show that people are always protected by the law against threats from society to the right to life, freedom and equality before the law.

Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing and removing such information. information violating the law, as well as requesting the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests.

Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and combat of cyber espionage, and the protection of information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life on the Internet. cyberspace. This is a progressive regulation that concretizes Clause 1, Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution, according to which, “human rights, civil rights in political, civil, economic, cultural and social fields are recognized, respect, protect, and guarantee according to the Constitution andp law”. From this provision of the Law on Cybersecurity, it will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, business secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. Thereby, there is no interference in private life, family, residence and correspondence.

Article 18 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and combat of acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety. This regulation helps protect people from cybercriminal activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts, etc. Thereby, protecting citizens' freedoms from being hacked. intrusion in cyberspace. Article 19 of the Law on Cybersecurity provides tools to protect people from cyberattacks, such as spreading malicious code, denial of service attacks, etc.

Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity ""reinforces"" tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and other Internet services. Additional services on cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for eliminating the sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these subjects. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data.

Children are especially protected in cyberspace. The contents of child protection in cyberspace are specified in Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity. In particular, it requires information system owners, enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace, agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, people care and other individuals responsible for the protection of children when children participate in cyberspace; requesting the specialized cyber security force to apply necessary measures to protect children's rights in cyberspace.

According to Articles 27, 32, 33, 34 of the Law on Cybersecurity, which regulates research and development of network security; recruitment, training and development of network security guards; education and fostering of knowledge and operations on network security; dissemination of knowledge about network security. From these regulations, it can be seen that citizens can participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training. At the same time, demonstrating the equal rights of citizens before the law.

Also according to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are protected by the specialized network security force when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the specialized force is empowered to implement security protection measures. necessary cybersecurity (Article 5), to help this force operate more effectively and efficiently, which means it will protect national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of the organization, more effective individuals.

The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to It is important to form a safe and healthy cyberspace"	
"First of all, it must be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit social network participants from voicing and expressing their personal views, but users of social networks must always comply with the Constitution and the law. The Law on Cybersecurity only regulates and handles information that violates the law.

Recently, the XIV National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity with 86.86% of the delegates agreeing. The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity comes from the context of the domestic cybersecurity situation and the requirement to protect national security, State secrets, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals, in accordance with international practices and the provisions of the Constitution. However, in the past time, some opponents have carried out propaganda activities, distorting with statements such as the Cybersecurity Law ""against humanity"", ""silence democracy"", ""suppression of dissent"". political opinions"", ""abuse of power"", ""banning the use of Facebook, Google""... These are completely fabricated and distorted information, with the aim of obstructing or causing panic and suspicion among the masses. people towards the Party's guidelines, the State's policies and laws on cyber security.

First of all, it must be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit social network participants from voicing and expressing their personal views, but users of social networks must always comply with the Constitution and the law. The Law on Cybersecurity only regulates and handles information that violates the law.

Expressing personal opinions is an indispensable need of every human being, especially in the era of the Internet, mobile communication devices, and explosive development of social networks. made easier than ever. However, the posting of false information, ""slashing"", ""throwing stones"" indiscriminately by ""keyboard heroes"" has left very dangerous consequences: Spreading false information, causing panic. bring public opinion; inciting acts of an extreme or violent nature, leading to social disorder and violation of the law. Or, the phenomenon of releasing photos and clips that insult the dignity and honor of others on social networks makes victims confused and scared, and has acted dangerously, threatening their own lives...

However, for a long time, Vietnamese law has not had specific regulations to prevent, fight and handle acts of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety. , legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals... This leads to the fact that people do not understand, are not aware of or intentionally commit wrong acts, and the authorities are not fair enough. legal instruments to handle.

Those shortcomings and limitations in law protection in cyberspace will be overcome when the Law on Cybersecurity takes effect. Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically stipulates 5 groups of information in cyberspace that must be removed when an organization or individual drafts, posts, or distributes information at the request of a specialized security force. and take responsibility according to the provisions of law, including: (1) Information containing propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (defaming the people's administration; insulting the nation, the national flag) , national emblem, national anthem, great man, leader, celebrity, national hero...). (2) Information with content that incites riots, disrupts security, disrupts public order (calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, attracting crowds to cause trouble, etc.). (3) Information with humiliating or slanderous content (seriously offending the honor, reputation, and dignity of others, etc.). (4) Information with content that infringes upon the economic management order (fabricated or untrue information about products and goods, etc.). (5) Information with fabricated and untrue content causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, and causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies.

Therefore, according to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, people can completely express their opinions and views on cyberspace, but they must not take advantage of that to propagate against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Vietnamese meaning; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management…

At the same time, the Cybersecurity Law strengthens the protection of human rights and citizens' rights in accordance with the Constitution. Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically stipulates the protection of information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in space. network. This is completely in line with the spirit of the 2013 Constitution.

Party committees at all levels shall gather information, propagate and explain to cadres, party members and people the basic contents of the Law on Cybersecurity; clarify the necessity, purpose and meaning of the Law on Cybersecurity; fight and oppose fabricated allegations and distort the contents of the Cybersecurity Law. Thereby, helping cadres, party members and people to raise their vigilance, not fall prey to bad elements, not be provoked or instigated to participate in mass gatherings and marches.or commit extreme acts that cause insecurity, social order and safety, or violate the law."	
"It is estimated that, at the current growth rate, within the next one year, Southeast Asia will have at least 460 million Internet users. Vietnam alone, according to statistics at the end of last year, the number of Internet users accounted for 67% of the population (equivalent to 64 million people), ranking 13th out of 20 countries with the largest number of Internet users in the world.

As all human activities in fields, from politics, economy, society to security and national defense are significantly dependent on the operation of computers and Internet-connected devices, the protection of Ensuring network security is becoming one of the challenges of the times in Southeast Asia in general as well as in Vietnam in particular.

In addition to the undeniable great benefits such as providing information, sharing, exchanging, connecting people, cooperating and exchanging, the Internet has also become an environment for new threats. It can be a threat to the interests of individuals, households and businesses, can even threaten national security and interests, harm economic growth, prosperity and stability. of an entire region.

These threats are diverse, ranging from cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyberwar, information misappropriation, to fabricated information, fraud, libel, incitement to violence, misrepresentation, against the regime,...

In many cases, cyberspace has become a ""safe haven"" for criminals and law-breakers, extremist terrorist groups, anti-sabotage and hostile forces.

There is no shortage of real-life examples, where cyberspace has been turned into a ""fertile ground"" to spread false information, disrupt the market, and infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. , even more serious, causing internal division, undermining the solidarity bloc, causing social disorder and disorder.

It is no coincidence that people call criminal acts in cyberspace the ""war without gunfire"". Economic damage alone, last year, the world ""lost"" 600 billion USD due to cybercrime, not to mention the incalculable losses such as insecurity, personal information security or national security. family is violated.

Remember, social media networks have been used by opposition forces to implement the so-called Arab Spring, inciting waves of protests, causing riots and moving towards overthrowing the constitutional governments in Tunisia. , Egypt, Yemen, Libya,…

According to an investigation by Al Jazeera, up to 90% of respondents in Tunisia and Egypt admitted that they had used the social network Facebook to spread calls for protests. Inciting fake, fabricated and distorted information was spread quickly, making people not alert enough and caught up in the wave of riots and subversion.

According to Professor Vladimir Kolotov, Director of the Ho Chi Minh Research Institute of Saint Petersburg State University in Russia, the lack of security in the field of cybersecurity poses a threat not only to cyber sovereignty, but also for the real sovereignty of the country.

Therefore, the establishment of order and regulation of cyberspace sovereignty by laws is a real and legitimate need for all countries, and many countries in the world. This will be an effective legal tool to promptly prevent potential risks and challenges from cyberspace.

Therefore, the fact that the National Assembly of Vietnam has just passed the Law on Cybersecurity is essential because according to the International Index on Cybersecurity published at the end of 2017, Vietnam is currently ranked 101/193 countries in the world. This index is evaluated by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) based on many criteria such as legal framework, organizational capacity related to national cyber security strategy, technical capacity, cooperation at home and abroad...

It is worth noting that Vietnam has one of the lowest levels of cybersecurity in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Excluding Southeast Asian countries that are at the forefront of cybersecurity management such as Singapore, which topped the ITU rankings, or Thailand and Malaysia at 22nd, Vietnam is also behind Laos, Cambodia and Myanmar. .

This shows the fact that Vietnam is ""later"" than many regional countries in making regulations on cybersecurity and improving safety in cyberspace.

According to Bangladesh's Dhakatribune, with the passage of the Cybersecurity Law, Vietnam is exercising its right to protect its citizens from all manipulations, contributing to political stability and social order, thereby bringing commitments. stronger connection from foreign investors, helping to maintain a stable economic growth rate.

In all aspects, cyberspace needs to be developed in a healthy and safe manner to serve the legitimate rights and interests of the majority of the people, and to ensure stability and development of the country.

In the face of the global spread of the Internet, the creation of a more transparent legal corridor by countries, including Vietnam, will contribute to promoting the positive points of the Internet, while minimizing the negative aspects. its impact on society, perception, ideology, andthanks to security, national sovereignty and the interests of the people; do not allow social media networks to be used by opposition forces to become tools to carry out evil schemes."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly of Vietnam on June 12, 2018 and officially took effect from January 1, 2019, consisting of 07 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of security protection. network security for information systems important to national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

This is a very meaningful law project, which is an important legal basis to protect national security; maintaining social order and safety, and sanctioning law-breaking acts in cyberspace.

The Law on Cybersecurity will further tighten activities in the network environment by prohibiting acts that cause network insecurity. This requires each internet and social network user to understand their rights and obligations when participating in activities in the cyberspace.

Accordingly, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates 06 groups of acts that are strictly prohibited to be performed in cyberspace: (1) Using cyberspace, information technology, and electronic means to violate national security and order Social security; Activities against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Distorting history, insulting religion, discriminating on gender, racist; Inciting riots, disrupting security or disrupting public order; Misinformation, humiliation, slander; Infringing upon economic management order, prostitution, social evils, human trafficking and instigating, enticing and inciting others to commit crimes. In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also prohibits (2) Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; causing incidents, attacks, infiltration, hijacking, falsification, interruption, disruption, paralysis or destruction of information systems important to national security; (3) Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, internet networks,...; (4) Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; (5) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations, personal or for personal gain…

Besides the consensus of the majority of people, there are still a few concerns about internet freedom due to the lack of proper and complete understanding of this newly enacted Law. They are concerned because they misunderstand that the Cybersecurity Law limits their personal freedom in cyberspace, while in fact the Law regulates prohibited behaviors that Facebook users often commit such as false information. truth, causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers; giving false information, fabricating, insulting human dignity, etc., according to 29 articles of the Penal Code, they will be handled. Clause 1 – Article 17 stipulates that users of social networks are not allowed to do the following: “Put on cyberspace information of personal secrets, family secrets, and private life contrary to the provisions of law.” . The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information; there are no provisions to impede freedom of speech.

In fact, over the past time, a number of electronic newspapers have published articles about cases occurring in the province with content that falsely reflect facts, sensitive information, and have not been verified, but have spread to the public. The dizzying speed on social networks has greatly affected socio-economic activities and caused bad public opinion among the people.

The use of social networking sites also occurs many violations, typically a case related to a land dispute has posted clips on social networks, youtube with untrue content, and at the same time slandered. denounce, fabricate, exhort and incite to oppose the functional forces. After the clip was posted, there were hundreds of shares, likes and comments with bad content, smearing the government, especially including officials and employees of agencies in the province.

A lot of false information like the above is spreading quickly because a part of people, especially young people, are only interested in sharing ""hot"" information to attract your attention. friends but rarely learn the true nature of that information. In addition, they do not understand the consequences of sharing false information, how harmful information will affect the security situation, politics, economy, society ... of the province.

However, in the process of solving the above cases, there are still many difficulties in fighting and handling because the sanctions system is not enough deterrent, only handling from the perspective of education and reminders. or sanction administrative violations. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is extremely necessary, meeting the inevitable requirements of state management while still being consistent with the reality of social life; It is an important legal weapon to prevent and handle abuses and abuses, protect national security, and maintain social order and safety.

To prevent distortions and misunderstandings, distorting the meaning ofbenefits of the Cybersecurity Law, in order to avoid abuse and help better awareness and compliance with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, all levels, branches, the Fatherland Front and political organizations and unions - society, especially schools, information and communication agencies, press and publishing, need to strengthen propaganda and disseminate the content, meaning and role of the Law on Cybersecurity to a wide range of people. in many far-reaching ways to help officials, party members, union members, members, students, and people of all walks of life fully realize the importance and necessity of the Law on Cybersecurity, contribute to step by step bring the Law on Cybersecurity to life.

The advent of the internet and social networks has posed new challenges, humanity has to face a complex information system such as: Information difficult to verify, false information, malicious information about morality, lifestyle, and mental abuse against people. For individuals, the internet and social networks are tools that bad guys can use to spread false information in order to cheat to appropriate property, terrorize the spirit, threaten to post private information online. … For the state, the internet and social networks are powerful weapons that hostile forces and reactionaries at home and abroad have been, are and will be taking advantage of more and more thoroughly for propaganda and distorting activities in the future. , against the regime. After carrying out many activities to put pressure, but still could not prevent the National Assembly from passing the Law on Cybersecurity, especially when the Government announced to collect opinions on the Draft Decree on implementing the Law on Cybersecurity, the following positions could not be stopped. The more hostile and reactionary forces are, the more aggressively they use many tricks to create a wave of protests, obstruct the implementation and demand the abolition of this Law. They spread on social networks, claiming that the Law on Cybersecurity ""especially infringes on private space"", ""violats freedom of speech, press, internet"", ""violates human rights"". Many Western news agencies, newspapers and many websites with servers located abroad intentionally distort and obstruct the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law. A series of reactionary organizations and individuals at home and abroad have set up websites and blogs, and used many facebook accounts to mold and mix real and fake information, cut pictures, spread rumors, and attract attention. reader's curiosity. In particular, during the time of important political events of the country, bad elements through facebook, zalo, youtube... posted and shared a lot of distorted information to lash out, satirize, cross sculpting events taking place throughout the country; smearing, fabricating, and discrediting the image of comrades leading the Party and State, leaders of agencies in the government system, causing skepticism among the people, and dividing the great national unity bloc. The hostile and reactionary forces have chosen social networks as a new ""front"", with full of cunning and sinister tricks to strengthen their resistance against our state. And it is reprehensible, when some people, because of ignorance, intentionally or unintentionally abet hostile and reactionary forces. It can be said that there has never been a time when hostile and reactionary forces had a methodical and detailed plan to distort and eliminate any law like the Law on Cybersecurity.

The negative reaction to the Cybersecurity Law of hostile forces, political opportunists, anti-regime and our State is also understandable, because for them, this is a legal tool. deprive them of important weapons that they can use to accomplish their goals of subverting, overthrowing, and transforming our regime into an alien ""democracy"" and ""human rights"" path. For the State and our people, the promulgation and strict implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is one of the important guarantees and an effective measure to ensure human rights, legitimate rights and interests of citizens. help prevent and handle illegal acts in cyberspace, contributing to protecting national security and maintaining social order and safety. Therefore, each citizen needs to be alert, properly identify, to eliminate false, hostile and distorting views about the Cybersecurity Law, and ensure that the Law on Cybersecurity is effectively implemented. To do so, you must learn about the Law on Cybersecurity (maybe on Google) so that you do not violate or be taken advantage of by others to commit bad acts. In particular, do not abuse social networks to post, share, like, comment on websites, articles of unknown origin, false information that confuses public opinion and complicates the situation. In the case of detecting that someone has posted content that distorts, opposes the state, or spreads false rumors on social networks, people should immediately notify the agency, local government, police agency. where the incident occurred in order to take timely measures.

Every cadre, civil servant, public employee, student, student and the entire people should be aware of the plots and tricks to spread false and reactionary information of individuals and organizations that intend to oppose the law. Our Party and State so as not to be linked, provoked, or lured to participate in illegal activities. Every user of a social network must protect himself againstOn the flip side, recognize the duality of social networks, avoid inadvertently abetting anti-destructive activities, negative, objectionable behaviors, and uncultured behavior on social networks. In particular, people need to be very careful when accessing information posted from unofficial, fake, foreign-origin sites, or by reactionary individuals, elements, or organizations. There are activities against Vietnam established (some websites, facebook accounts of typical enemies and reactionaries such as: RFA - Radio Asia Tu D with address: www.rfa.org; BBC News Vietnamese – address: www.bbc.com, VOA Vietnamese – address: VOATiengViet.com, facebook.com/VOATiengViet, Youtobe.com/VOATiengVietVideo; Fanpage: Viet Tan, Catholic Youth, Good News for the Poor, Japan patriotic signing, Free Journalists Club, New Horizons Media, Brotherhood for Democracy, Hoang Sa FC, Page Portrait of Power, Quan make newspaper, facebook Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh (ie Mother Mushroom), Hoang Ngoc Dieu, Le Cong Dinh, Nguyen Huy Vu,…). When accessing negative information on social networks, actively search for official press and information sites to compare and contrast. If the source, motive and purpose of the information and the person sharing the information cannot be identified, it is necessary to stay calm and careful not to comment or spread information. In addition, it is necessary to build a positive attitude to always seek and share good and useful information, limit reading negative, malicious and unknown information. Everyone needs to know how to take advantage and use social networks properly and effectively, turn social networks into a means and a useful channel to expand knowledge, together build a social network culture environment. a healthy society, avoid being influenced by virtual information, effectively contribute to the prevention and control of wrong and hostile thoughts and views."	
"1. Actual situation of implementing the Law on Cybersecurity in Vietnam

The Law on Cybersecurity, passed by the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly, consists of 7 Chapters and 43 Articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important to national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security, implement cybersecurity protection activities and prescribe responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. The provisions of the Cybersecurity Law 2018 focus on preventing, detecting, fighting and handling illegal acts in cyberspace, infringing upon objects that must be protected as security. country, social order and safety.

Since its promulgation and implementation, the Law on Cybersecurity has shown the effectiveness of legal institutions for activities in cyberspace. The reality of the past year has refuted some fabricated information such as the Law on Cybersecurity preventing and infringing on the right to freedom of expression. Evidence shows that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prevent or infringe on citizens' freedom of expression. Communication, exchange, posting, information sharing, purchase and sale, business and commerce activities still take place normally in cyberspace, without being prevented or prohibited as long as such activities are not violate the laws of Vietnam. Citizens can do anything in cyberspace that is not prohibited by Vietnamese law. The Law on Cybersecurity protects free speech activities, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals when buying, selling, doing business, exchanging and trading in cyberspace. Any unverified, untrue information that adversely affects social order and safety will be handled resolutely and promptly (1). Typically, the handling of those who spread false information about the Covid-19 epidemic has been dealt with drastically and seriously by localities. The authorities not only tracked down and dealt with those who spread fake news, but also asked social networking sites to remove fake news and publish official information from competent authorities. Put an end to information disturbance, panic and anxiety among people in the early days of the outbreak, affecting epidemic prevention and control.

In fact, there have been many bad guys who spread the news that the Law on Cybersecurity prohibits internet users from accessing Facebook, Google, and Youtube. However, since the application of the Law, people using the internet can still easily access all websites at home and abroad. The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates measures to protect network security for people when participating in activities on social networking sites such as Facebook, Google... But if any individual or organization uses cyberspace to committing acts of violating the law will be strictly handled according to the provisions of law.

While the Law has no regulations on controlling, managing, limiting or hindering business activities of enterprises, as well as start-up activities. However, many bad guys have spread the news that the Law on Cybersecurity has hindered Vietnamese telecommunications, internet and start-up businesses. Recently, the Law on Cybersecurity has proven that no online service provider has stopped operating. All business activities as long as they do not violate the law will still take place normally on the network environment. The law only stipulates the cooperative responsibility of enterprises in protecting national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace; guide businesses, organizations and individuals to apply measures to protect themselves against threats from cyberspace.

Therefore, each subject using cyberspace needs to be aware of the posted information and consciously comply with the law for the peaceful development of the country; well aware of the implementation of the law on cyber security, contributing to protecting the ideological foundation of the Party, fighting against wrong and hostile views in the new situation in accordance with the spirit of Resolution 35-NQ/TW of the Politburo.

The current situation of implementing the law on cybersecurity in Vietnam is reflected in the following four aspects:

First, comply with the law on cybersecurity: Implementing the Party and State's guidelines and policies on cybersecurity, Vietnam has promulgated the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity. The situation of cyber security control is increasing. get into order. It shows that the determination to implement is there, but with the official legal tool in hand, everything becomes easier and more convenient. However, along with the initial achievements, cyber security is facing many risks with the law violations of increasingly sophisticated actors. According to the annual report on the security situation of the Ministry of Public Security, in 2018, fraudulent activities to appropriate property on social networks (Facebook, Zalo, Viber, WhatsApp...) were complicated, emerging as the state of fraudulent appropriation of property by texting to announce winning via social networks; get to know the victim, create trust, promise to send money or valuable gifts, then impersonate a customs officer to ask the victim to transfer moneycustoms clearance procedures for appropriation. Business activities under the multi-level model via the internet are still complicated with many new and sophisticated methods and tricks such as: Setting up a website to organize capital mobilization to pay high interest rates to appropriate assets; taking advantage of charitable activities to defraud and appropriate property; established and created many exchanges of cryptocurrencies operating under a multi-level model such as: Onecoin, Bitcoin, ILcoin, Gemcoin... to attract investors to appropriate assets or trade in cryptocurrencies. Illegal to launder money, ship goods, pay football bets. Typically, Nguyen Huu Tien and his accomplices set up the website Otcmax.vn to advertise project investment with a high profit of 1.8%/day and invest in virtual currency VNCoins with a profit of 2.5%/day, has appropriated more than 200 billion VND from 6,000 people; Sky Mining virtual currency mining cooperative with the advertising trick of being the ""largest virtual money mining company in Vietnam"" calls on investors to buy virtual currency mining machines with the promise of returning capital and interest after 12 months. % of investment, has appropriated over 300 billion VND from investors. In addition, the situation of gambling and betting on football on the internet is very complicated, with the amount of money gambling up to trillions of dong. Foreign bookmakers often connect with domestic ones to form a large network of gambling organizations for both Vietnamese and foreigners (2). For profit purposes, many organizations and individuals doing business on the Internet have not complied with the legal provisions on network security. The problem of online advertising goods on one side, but when the delivery is not of the right quality, not on time as promised, tends to increase.

Second, enforcement of the law on network security: Determining that the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law is one of the key tasks, determining the success of law enforcement on network security, dated 1-2-- In 2019, the Prime Minister issued Decision No. 12/QD-TTg promulgating the Plan to implement the Law on Cybersecurity, which directed the organization of conferences to thoroughly understand and disseminate to ministries and agencies. capacity, People's Committees of provinces and centrally-run cities, the subjects of impact of the Law on Cybersecurity so that people know, understand and strictly implement it. Agencies, organizations and individuals assigned the task of implementing the law on cyber security have deployed and organized the implementation of assigned tasks to ensure compliance with regulations and ensure that the law on cyber security is implemented. exam. In addition to approaching cyberspace as a new territory that needs to be protected, accessing cyberspace in terms of technical and tangible characteristics, cyberspace is considered as a computer system that needs to be protected. guard. In this sense, law enforcement on network security is understood as mandatory application of security measures to identified network components including equipment, databases, and infrastructure. It is imperative that the physical resources of the network be used in accordance with regulations.

Third, the use of the law on network security: The law on cyber security stipulates that legal subjects have the right to use subject rights to protect their legitimate rights and interests in the field of network security. . Agencies, organizations and individuals are active and proactive in using the law to exercise and protect lawful rights and interests because competent entities have ensured the implementation of legal provisions. about network security. Accordingly, Articles 5, 6, 8, 9 Chapter I of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulate that organizations and individuals have the authority to use the law on cyber security in applying measures to protect network security such as: network security assessment; assess network security conditions; network security check; network security monitoring; responding to and overcoming network security incidents; fight to protect network security; use cryptography to protect network information; prevent, request to suspend or stop providing network information; suspend, temporarily suspend activities of establishing, providing and using telecommunications networks, the internet, manufacturing and using radio transmitters and receivers in accordance with law; request the deletion, access and deletion of illegal or untrue information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies and organizations organizations and individuals; collect electronic data related to activities infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals in cyberspace; blockade and limit the operation of the information system; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name in accordance with the law; prosecute, investigate, prosecute and adjudicate according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code; other measures in accordance with the law on national security, the law on handling of administrative violations...

Chapter II of the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates network security protection activities for information systems important for national security, such as: Protection of information systems important for national security, including: important information system on national security; protect network securityfor information systems important to national security; network security assessment for information systems important for national security; examine and evaluate network security for information systems important to national security; monitor, warn, respond to and remedy network security incidents occurring to information systems important to national security...

Fourth, apply the law on network security: The responsibility to protect network security is carried out by many agencies and organizations, of which the focal point for state management of cybersecurity is clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity. . Supervision, inspection and handling of violations of the law by state agencies with the function of network security protection is an important form of law application. The Ministry of Public Security has had many active activities in detecting, investigating and handling violations of the law on cyber security. In the spirit of resolutely minimizing risks and challenges from cyber security, ensuring that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. of agencies, organizations and individuals, in 2019, the Ministry of Public Security has strengthened measures to clarify new methods and tricks of criminals using high technology in card payment and electricity payment activities. death; dismantled many criminal lines of gambling and betting on football via the internet such as: the arrest of 10 people in a gambling line, organizing an online gambling with an amount of about 500 billion dong in Hanoi; the arrest of 29 people gambling over the internet with an amount of over 1,000 billion VND in Hung Yen; the arrest of 13 internet gamblers with the amount of 12 billion dong, identified that there are about 100 accounts in 33 provinces and cities nationwide participating in gambling in Nghe An; foreign criminals using high technology in Vietnam. Investigate and arrest many subjects who set up many websites, facebook, virtual zalo, scam billions of dong. Detected 352 cases, 503 criminals and violated the law in the field of telecommunications and informatics (up 17.73% of cases compared to the same period in 2018). Prosecuted 164 cases, 304 accused (an increase of 17.99% of cases and an increase of 6.29% of defendants compared to the same period in 2018)(3). In early February, the Quang Nam Provincial Police force successfully dismantled an online gambling line in the form of football betting and lotteries with an amount of more than 40 billion VND (4).

In the form of law application of state agencies on cybersecurity, the court's adjudication of cases of violation of the cybersecurity law has a particularly important role and influence. , because only the Court has the judicial function. Before accepting the file, the Court may apply temporary urgent measures to protect the interests of the litigants. During the trial, the court strictly followed the strict order and procedures of the Criminal Procedure Law. Sanctions applied to violators are deterrent and educational. However, the actual trial of the court industry in recent years shows that there are not many criminal cases in this field.

Some limitations in the implementation of the law on cybersecurity above stem from many inadequate legal provisions on network security. Therefore, many subjects are still confused when applying it to real life. The awareness of compliance with the law on cybersecurity of most organizations and individuals is not high; Human resources specialized in cybersecurity protection are limited in terms of qualifications and capacity and have not met the requirements in the new situation. The infrastructure equipment has not yet been mastered, and technology products must be imported from abroad, mostly from China.

2. Some solutions to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity in Vietnam in the coming time

In order to promote the positive impact of the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, overcome limitations and inadequacies in the implementation of the law on cybersecurity, and contribute to improving the effectiveness of the implementation of the law on cybersecurity. In the future, the following solutions should be implemented synchronously:

Firstly, thoroughly grasp the leadership of the Party, the unified management of the State; mobilize the synergy of the political system and the entire people; promote the core role of the specialized force for cybersecurity protection under the Ministry of Public Security assigned by the Government to be the focal point for state management of cyber security.

Strengthen the leadership of the Party in building and perfecting the law on cyber security as a basis for the implementation of the law on cyber security. The law on cybersecurity has contributed to building a unified awareness for the subjects, adjusting the behavior of law enforcement in a more and more positive direction. Therefore, it is necessary to quickly improve the legal system on network security.

It is necessary to study and eliminate regulations that cause overlapping interpretations between the 2015 Law on Cyber ​​Security and the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity. Supplement missing regulations to meet the requirements of regulating social relations. continuously arise in the context of the Industrial Revolution 4.0. In addition, it is necessary to overcome the phenomenon of inconsistency between provisions in legal documents.

Second, continue to review, develop and complete the legal provisions on prevention of cancerpublish and operate the network security system in accordance with international standards; perfecting the legal institution on the implementation of the law in general and the law on cyber security in particular in order to meet the requirements of national cyber security protection.

To step up the propaganda and dissemination of the law on network security. The authorities will soon research and innovate methods, forms and contents of activities so that people can understand and properly understand the law on cyber security. Comply with the law on network security; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals when operating in the network environment.

Third, supplementing sanctions in the law on cyber security in the direction that it must be enough to deter and prevent violations; clearly stipulate a coordination mechanism between state management agencies in charge of cybersecurity, ensuring that all violations of the law on cyber security must be handled promptly and strictly. The sanctions applied must be enough to deter and educate in order to prevent and stop violations.

Fourth, strengthen international cooperation and promote technology transfer. Implementing the law on cybersecurity in Vietnam is a new activity. The first legal document regulating social relations in the field of cybersecurity was issued by the State in 1997, which was the Prime Minister's Decree No. 21/ND-CP dated March 5, 1997 on promulgating the Provisional Regulation on the management, establishment and use of the internet network in Vietnam, and at the same time issuing the Decision on the establishment of the National Internet Coordinating Committee. This is an important Decree defining responsibilities for state management, provision and use of internet services. Meanwhile, many countries around the world have a long history of cybersecurity protection. The implementation of cybersecurity legislation in these countries is really experienced for Vietnam to refer to and apply, such as the US, Russia, Singapore, etc.

Promote international cooperation in order to transfer experiences suitable to Vietnam's practice, thereby raising the awareness of law compliance of entities when participating in cyberspace activities. At the same time, resolutely apply strong measures to handle illegal acts in cyberspace, take advantage of the media in the context of Technology 4.0 to promptly publicize cases. Infringement of the network security law has been handled.

Fifth, state agencies, organizations and enterprises need to implement solutions to ensure overall network safety and security in order to overcome the above shortcomings and limitations, contributing to further improving the ranking. of Vietnam in the GCI. Thoroughly grasping the principle that Ministers, Heads of ministerial-level agencies, Governmental agencies, Presidents of People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities, Presidents and General Directors of State corporations and corporations , the State Commercial Bank, the Vietnam Development Bank, the Bank for Social Policies, the Cooperative Bank of Vietnam and other state credit and financial institutions are responsible to the Prime Minister if in order to cause unsafety, cyber security, or disclosure of state secrets at the agency or unit under their management. Designate and strengthen the focal point of a unit in charge of network information security to do a good job of advising, organizing the implementation, inspecting and urging the implementation of legal provisions on assurance of safety and security. network security. To closely coordinate with the specialized agency in charge of network safety and security of the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense in monitoring, sharing information, inspecting and assessing safety and security. network.

For monitoring and responding to network information security incidents, protecting information systems under their management: Self-monitoring and responding to network information security incidents, protecting information systems under the management or selection of organizations or enterprises with sufficient capacity to perform; notify information on the focal point for monitoring and responding to cyberinformation security incidents to the Ministry of Information and Communications and when there is a change in focal information; connecting and sharing information with the National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center under the Information Security Department, Ministry of Information and Communications.

For the inspection and assessment of network information security for information systems under their management, it is necessary to select an organization or enterprise that is independent of the monitoring and protection organization or enterprise for periodic inspection. assess network information security for level 3 or higher information systems under their management, or irregularly inspect and evaluate when required in accordance with law. For level 3 and level 4 information systems, annually inspect, evaluate and report to the Ministry of Information and Communications and the Prime Minister. For the national important information system (level 5), every 6 months, check, evaluate and report to the Ministry of Information and Communications to summarize and report to the Prime Minister.

Prioritize the use of products, solutions and services of domestic enterprises that meet the requirements of network safety and security as prescribed by law for level 3 information systems.and above, information systems serving e-Government. Ensure that the proportion of expenditures for network information security products and services reaches at least 10% of the total budget for implementing the annual, 5-year information technology application plan and public projects. information technology (in case the investor does not have a technical system or hires a specialized network information security assurance service that meets the provisions of the law on assurance of information system security at different levels). ). Using and managing the secret key (USB token) of digital signatures, Government specialized digital signature authentication services, digital certificates, encryption solutions of the Government Cipher Board in accordance with regulations. Continue to improve mechanisms, policies and legal frameworks on cyberinformation security, cyber security, cybercrime, and child protection in the cyber environment; strategies, master plans and plans on development of network information security; develop human resources for safety and network security; standards and technical regulations on network information security. Timely provide information and data on legal, technical, organizational, capacity building and cooperation in the field of network safety and security to serve the assessment and ranking of ITU's GCI index(5 )"	
"1. Children have the right to be protected, to access information, to participate in social activities, to have fun and to be entertained, to keep their private life secret and to have other rights when participating in cyberspace.

2. Information system owners, service providers on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace are responsible for controlling information content on information systems or on services. provided by the enterprise must not cause harm to children, infringe upon children and children's rights; prevent the sharing and deletion of information with content harmful to children, infringing upon children and children's rights; promptly notify and coordinate with the specialized network security force under the Ministry of Public Security to handle.

3. Agencies, organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace are responsible for coordinating with competent state management agencies in ensuring children's rights in cyberspace and preventing cyberinformation. causing harm to children according to the provisions of this Law and the law on children.

4. Agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers and other relevant individuals are responsible for ensuring children's rights to protect children when participating in cyberspace as prescribed by law. child law.

5. The specialized cybersecurity protection force and functional agencies must apply measures to prevent, detect, stop and strictly handle acts of using cyberspace to infringe on children and children's rights. ."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity has provisions to protect people from bad and malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses to provide services on telecommunications networks, the internet and aerial value-added services. Cyberspace in Vietnam is responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these subjects. The law was passed by the National Assembly at its 5th session, and took effect on January 1, 2019.

In recent years, there have been more and more law violations in cyberspace, causing frustration in society. These are activities that take advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety. , propagate, distort, slander, and oppose the state. In addition, there are cyber espionage activities, stealing state secrets, infringing on economic management order and social order and safety, which emerge as activities of fraud, theft, gambling, and fishing. violence, online prostitution, theft of personal information, slander, humiliation of others and above all cyber attacks, hijacking, cyber terrorism, cyber war.

However, the handling of these cases is very passive, embarrassing and ineffective because there is no legal corridor that fully, specifically, and clearly regulates violations of the law in space. There are no strict and strong sanctions to effectively handle violations of national security, social order and safety, and violations of legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , individuals in cyberspace.

According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, including about 3,000 phishing attacks (Phishing), 6,500 malware attacks (Malware) and 4,500 interface changing attacks (Deface).

In particular, the number of attacks on the information systems of state agencies with the domain name "".gov.vn"" also reached hundreds. In the first 5 months of 2018, 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks were recorded in Vietnam, in February and March alone, there were more than 1,500 cyberattacks. Insecurity vulnerabilities are increasing, about more than 300% per year, causing the risk of network information security to increase rapidly when entering the Industrial Revolution 4.0.

According to cybersecurity experts, even when the Law on Cyberinformation Security was promulgated (2015), there was no legal document regulating information systems important to national security, these systems not adequately protected. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary, appropriate, and meets the urgent requirements of the current practical situation.

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles that stipulate the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, the Law stipulates full measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and detect threats. and handle violations of the law, including prevention and handling of online information containing propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of state secret information, work secrets, and personal information online;...

""This is a solid legal corridor for people to be able to do business or operate in cyberspace with peace of mind,"" he said. Currently, user data in Vietnam online has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage. Even the data has been used for political conspiracies or in violation of the law. Therefore, in order to strictly manage and protect Vietnam's data online, the Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services in cyberspace have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing, processing personal data, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam.

In fact, Vietnamese people are increasingly dependent on foreign social networks. This is a global issue that many countries are concerned about, not only Vietnam. Meanwhile, many Vietnamese information technology enterprises have ambitions to build a social network to compete with Facebook or a competitive search engine Google, but due to their limited financial potential, they face many obstacles.
Designing and building their own social network is a policy that big countries like Russia and China are implementing. Accordingly, the Governments of Russia and China have taken a number of measures to prevent and limit the use of social networks from abroad, and at the same time encourage and create maximum conditions for citizens to use social networks operated by businesses. provided by domestic industry. VietnameseSouth is a country that currently has 50.1 million internet users and this number continues to grow. Limitations when people depend on foreign social networks, the state of leaking state secrets, destructive activities of elements, hostile forces as well as the degree of tax evasion and lack of cooperation of agencies. A global technology corporation pushes us to build Vietnam's social network. In order for Vietnamese businesses to develop a globally competitive social network, policies must be synchronized, prioritizing tax and fee reduction, and developing digital content to form a strong digital ecosystem. This work requires the cooperation of four companies: a telecommunications infrastructure provider - a social network operator - an advertiser and a content developer in the country to hope to build a digital ecosystem in Vietnam.

According to online newspaper VTV.vn, Vietnam's Zalo social network has just celebrated its 10th anniversary and now has more than 80 million users worldwide. Compared to the ""empire"" Facebook has more than 1.5 billion users worldwide, it is clear that Zalo is still a small social network. But the initial success of Zalo, as well as the success of Viettel when investing abroad are signals that our information technology businesses can completely step into the big sea successfully.

It is also a signal for each Vietnamese citizen to confidently build an ""online people's war posture"" - an issue of vital significance to preserve the Vietnamese national cultural identity in the Revolutionary era. Industry 4.0 today."	
"At present, cybercriminals are increasingly sophisticated in terms of tricks, nature and danger levels such as: Taking advantage of the internet and social networking sites to spread news, articles, images, and video clips that have the potential to be dangerous. content against the Party and State, inciting protests, inciting ethnic and religious discrimination, etc., causing panic, suspicion and discontent among the people; collect private and sensitive images and clips and publish news, articles and video clips belonging to the privacy of individuals in order to fabricate untrue information, seriously offend the honor, reputation and dignity other people. In order to raise awareness of responsibilities of union members and youth in fighting against wrong and hostile views in the new situation, the Provincial Youth Union coordinated with the Provincial Police, the Department of Information and Communications, the Department of Education and Training to organize Organized a conference on ""Deploying and signing the emulation agreement to implement the joint plan, coordinating to mobilize union members, youth, pupils and students to participate in protecting the ideological foundation of the Party and fight against them. false, hostile, malicious information; preventing and combating crime and law violations in cyberspace”.

Youth union members of Nam Dinh city learn about the Law on Cybersecurity. Photo: Provided by the facility
Youth union members of Nam Dinh city learn about the Law on Cybersecurity.

Photo: Provided by the facility

On that basis, the district Youth Union, Youth Union and affiliated Youth Union have coordinated with the police of districts and cities to organize a conference to deploy and sign an emulation agreement to implement the plan in accordance with the local situation. , units and build point models. Provincial Youth Union Standing Committee held a conference to train key Youth Union officials, reporters and young theorists club of the province on contents and skills to implement Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW of the Ministry of Science and Technology. Politics on October 22, 2018 on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation, fighting against wrong and hostile views in the new situation""; organize a thematic study to implement Directive 05 of the Politburo in 2020 on ""Strengthening the great national unity bloc, building a clean and strong Party and political system according to ideology, morality and style way from Ho Chi Minh”; training ""Professional work to fight against false views, bad and toxic information on the internet and social networks"" and learned 4 lessons of political theory to deploy to union members and young people. The members of the young reasoning club are always active on the propaganda front, participating in pages and groups of the province. The Provincial Youth Union actively cooperates with the Propaganda Department of the Provincial Party Committee, departments, branches and unions to create unity and strength in the work of fighting and refuting false accusations; propagate and share good news, good deeds, and good examples in life, thereby spreading positive values ​​in society. In addition, the Provincial Youth Union coordinated with the School Unions to organize propaganda conferences and set out a number of preventive measures for students to actively prevent cybercrime, such as: Keeping personal information secret, number phone, home address, bank account information, account of services on the internet... Do not share personal photos, articles or video clips of others without their permission, do not publish images, articles or video clips of other individuals for the purpose of smearing the honor and dignity of that person. Do not share or comment on information about the country's history and politics that are not true; need to be alert to fabricated and false information by actively listening and reading official news from news, television channels or press websites of the Party and State. Do not instigate, entice, incite others to commit crimes, or incite conflicts to others leading to crimes... Especially, recently, the Ministry of Education and Training has issued Circular 46/2020/TT - The Board of Education about the program of National Defense and Security Education at high school (effective from January 11, 2021) specified in the National Defense and Security Education program, grade 10 students will learn about the Security Law. 2018 (referred to as the Cybersecurity Law). Circular 46/2020/TT-BGDDT is applicable to high schools, high schools with many levels of education, including high school level and related organizations and individuals. A new point of the circular compared to the previous learning content is to make the Law on Cybersecurity one of the contents of the National Defense and Security Education subject to supplement legal knowledge as well as necessary skills. for students to participate in the network environment in a positive and useful way. According to the assessment of the authorities, the violations of the law on the internet are mainly due to the unintentional or intentional awareness of not knowing right from wrong or ""a dua"" according to the crowd. Faced with that situation, increasing skills education for internet participants, especially young people, pupils and students to adjust their behavior in cyberspace, as well as to protect themselves in the environment. Learning and entertainment on the internet is extremely necessary.

The strengthening of Cybersecurity Law education for union members and young people aims to promoteg raise awareness of the nature and danger of cybercrime, thereby, adjust behavior and strictly comply with the provisions of the law to ensure safety for themselves and the community."	
"According to Bac Me district police, in recent years, the number of people violating the Law on Cybersecurity is relatively high. Specifically: In 2020, 5 cases will be handled with 11 subjects, of which 2 are reminders; 8 subjects of administrative fines with the fine amount of 82 million VND; warning 2 cases. In 2021 discovered 3 cases, 3 subjects, received 1 case of denunciation of criminal information about the act of appropriating property on social networks; prosecute 1 defendant; 4 cases were victims of fraudulent acts to appropriate property on social networks with the amount of 20 million dong. Focusing on the following behaviors: Misinformation that confuses public opinion; Posting information that defames the dignity of organizations and individuals…

Facing the alarming situation, Bac Me District Union has coordinated with the district police force in promoting propaganda. According to Lieutenant Nguyen Minh Quyet, Secretary of the Bac Me District Public Security Union, said: “Of the total number of violations that the district police have handled, the number of young people infected and violated the Cybersecurity Law accounts for about 40%. . From that fact, in order to educate and propagate for children to understand the law, the police have closely cooperated with the District Youth Union, the secondary and high schools are the places where many youth and youth forces gather in order to promote the law. propagate and help children understand and understand the law. As a large area, sparsely populated, people are mainly ethnic minorities, the ability to access and understand the law is still limited, so the district police have coordinated with local branches and schools. learning, integrating brief propaganda sessions, diversifying propaganda languages, choosing content that is close to reality, giving examples that are often encountered, and at the same time interacting to answer questions on the spot... for a lively and highly effective propaganda session.”

Union of Yen Cuong commune (Bac Me) propagates the law to the people of Ban Nghe village.
Union of Yen Cuong commune (Bac Me) propagates the law to the people of Ban Nghe village.
Highly appreciated and a useful extra-curricular activity, Mr. Phan The Cuong, Vice Principal of Bac Me High School said: “Aware of the importance of propagating the Cybersecurity Law in schools. Right from the beginning of the school year, the school has developed a propaganda plan and especially coordinated with the district police to raise students' sense of responsibility and awareness in using social networks.

In addition, the school directs the Youth Union in the school to organize competitions to learn about the law to create vividness, help students understand, experience and approach reality to avoid violations. Thereby with 662 students who are one of the typical forces of the district who know the law well, they will become propagandists, helping to bring the Cybersecurity Law to a large number of people…”.

Nguyen Thuy Nga, a student of class 10A3, Bac Me High School shared: Through the propaganda session on the Law on Cybersecurity, it helped me understand that it is necessary to use the internet, including social networks, selectively. Do not post or share false information. We also need to equip ourselves with the skills to select information and use social networks to serve the needs of learning and entertainment in a safe and legal manner. The specific, vivid examples, close questions related to the Law on Cybersecurity ... have contributed to equipping us with more knowledge to protect ourselves and our loved ones from dangers ..."".

The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity aims to perfect the legal basis to protect the sovereignty, interests, national security, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in Internet activities. cyberspace; building a healthy cyber environment… Facing practical requirements, promoting propaganda and bringing the Law on Cybersecurity deeply and deeply to the people will contribute to meeting the requirements of socio-economic development, improve the people's quality of life and ensure national defense and security."	
"In 2 days 10 and 11/6/2018, in some southern provinces and cities such as Ho Chi Minh City, Binh Thuan, Khanh Hoa... many people gathered in large numbers, organized illegal demonstrations, blocked roads. Highway 1 causes traffic jams, resists law enforcement officers, and destroys property of many state agencies and units to protest against the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units and the Law on Cybersecurity. This issue has greatly affected the political security situation and social order and safety in many localities. After the demonstrations and disturbances, many people agitated, organized, participated in, caused trouble, and resisted law enforcement officials... were prosecuted, detained and detained awaiting trial in accordance with the law. the law.

Not stopping there, hostile forces, opposing our country's revolution are also quietly inciting and inciting people to protest and cause trouble in many other localities throughout the country. Their trick is through the social networking site Facebook of the number of reactionaries who have posted information calling for and inciting protests. This information is constantly being posted, sharing articles and images with misleading content. Enemy, reactionary, and anti-revolutionary forces propagate with distorting statements: “The passage of the Law on Special Economic Zones - especially the sale of land to China; The three special economic zones are all strategic locations, the 99-year lease period is too long, which will threaten national security and territorial sovereignty. These misrepresentations have hit the people's patriotism, causing the people's patriotism to be used in favor of hostile forces to incite people to protest and cause trouble.

Regarding the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, the Party-State, the National Assembly and the Government have been very careful, listening to the enthusiastic opinions and responsibilities of the National Assembly deputies and the people. Thereby, it was decided to delay the approval of the draft of the Law to continue to improve, ensuring that when the Law is passed, the role of special zones in economic development can be promoted; manage and make good use of natural resources and land, prevent all negative manifestations, group interests, ensure security and defense, maintain security and social order. At the same time, meeting the requirements and aspirations of the people throughout the country. The Law on Cybersecurity has now been approved by the National Assembly with 86.86% of the votes in favor. The Law on Cybersecurity plays a very important role in the current period to ensure social order and security.

In addition, hostile and anti-revolutionary forces also used tricks to seduce and give money to entice people to participate in protests and cause trouble. In which, subjects with bad background, disgruntled, have been repeatedly sanctioned for crimes of public disorder, crimes of infringing upon national security... are often present to cheer, inciting the masses to engage in activities that cause insecurity and disorder. Later, a large number of curious people participated, hostile and reactionary forces took photos and videos to publish on social networks with ""political colors"".

Therefore, in the face of distorting and anti-revolutionary claims of hostile forces, officials and people in Ca Mau province need to raise the spirit of vigilance, prevention and denunciation of crimes. At the same time, it is necessary to be alert, not to fall for tricks, not to listen to the instigators, agitators and troublemakers of bad elements, of hostile forces; do not participate in marches or demonstrations, do not commit violent acts or violate the law. Resolutely and effectively struggle with hostile forces in order to maintain stability, security, order and safety for society and peace for the Fatherland. And above all, don't let our people's patriotism be taken advantage of."	
"In recent years, domestic and foreign reactionary and dissident organizations have thoroughly taken advantage of cyberspace to carry out propaganda activities, incite protests, disrupt security and order, oppose destroy our Party and State. Fearing the loss of operational space and failure to implement the measures that are currently being used, reactionary organizations such as: ""Viet Tan"", ""Provisional National Government of Vietnam""... and A number of subjects vigorously and fiercely opposed the implementation of activities against the Cybersecurity Law before and after the National Assembly passed it. Their goal is to negate the draft Cybersecurity Law, prevent the National Assembly from passing the Cybersecurity Law, delay the implementation or revoke the Cybersecurity Law.


Taking advantage of the people's inadequate knowledge and information about the Law on Cybersecurity, hiding under the guise of ""freedom of speech"", taking advantage of the Party's policy of ""appreciating the advisory and critical role of political parties"". scientific research agency in formulating the Party's guidelines and policies, the State's policies and laws on economic, cultural and social development projects"" (Document of the First National Congress of Deputies). 12th Party Committee), reactionary organizations, domestic and foreign opposers have propagated and distort the content of the Cybersecurity Law with the aim of causing information chaos, creating suspicion and bad public opinion in society, thereby inciting people to gather in large numbers, march, protest against the Law on Cybersecurity, causing insecurity and disorder. Their activities focus on: (1) Inciting people to take to the streets to protest against the Cybersecurity Law; (2) Organizing writing campaigns with content that distorts, opposes and opposes the Law on Cybersecurity; (3) Organizing campaigns to collect opinions and collect signatures of citizens to propose Party and State leaders; (4) Producing videos, clips and inviting people claiming to be technology experts and state management experts to comment with bad content about the Cybersecurity Law.


Immediately after the Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, activities against breaking the Law became more and more fierce, reactionary organizations and the number of opponents continuously organized themselves to record videos, clips, and quote false information. .


Although it has been carefully prepared and approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, because this is a law with provisions on prevention, combat and direct handling of activities infringing upon national security in the air. cyberspace, there are still doubts about the content of the Law. Therefore, bad actors have taken advantage of it to propagate, incite protests, and oppose the Law on Cybersecurity in order to steer public opinion in an unfavorable direction with the aim of obstructing or causing panic and suspicion in the law. the masses to the Party and State's policies on cyber security.


2. Under the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity, individuals are entitled to the following benefits:


(1) Be protected when participating in cyberspace activities against bad, malicious information, infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their lawful rights and interests. With the scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safer and healthier than before, minimizing factors and risks. opportunities to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: personal information theft, fraud, appropriation of property, slander, humiliation, defamation, restriction of malicious code , gradually eliminate gambling, betting, transmission of depraved cultural products inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace…; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.


(2) To participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training.


(3) Being given tools to protect their interests:


- Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity provides for the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing and removing information that violates the law, as well as request the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests.


- Article 17 of the Cybersecurity Law will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.- Article 18 of the Cybersecurity Law helps protect people from cybercriminal activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts, etc.


- Article 19 of the Law on Cybersecurity gives tools to protect people from cyberattacks, such as spreading malicious code, denial of service attacks, etc.


- Article 26, Law on Cybersecurity ""reinforces"" more tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and Additional services on cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these people. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data.


(4) Children with special protection in cyberspace: Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity prescribes the contents of protecting children in cyberspace. In which, it requires information system owners, enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace, agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers. caregivers and other individuals responsible for protecting children when children participate in cyberspace; requesting the specialized cyber security force to apply necessary measures to protect children's rights in cyberspace.


(5) To be protected by a specialized force for cybersecurity protection when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the task force is empowered to take necessary cybersecurity protection measures (Article 5), helping this force operate more effectively and efficiently, which means it will protect national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.


(6) The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to important for the formation of a safe and healthy cyberspace.


3. The Law on Cybersecurity does not control all of citizens' personal information.


In the face of serious and complicated illegal activities in cyberspace, it is necessary to ensure the basis and conditions for quick and effective investigation and handling of the law enforcement force. necessary and urgent, including the responsibilities of domestic and foreign service providers. Information of individuals with illegal activities is one of the important types of data for law enforcement forces to investigate and handle violations of the law.


Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to: responsible for providing user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.


Thus, the network security protection force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by the relevant authorities. authorized to approve. Currently, there is a lot of information on the cyberspace that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information, private information to the authorities is incorrect. .


The Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request information. user.


The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.


4. The Law on Cybersecurity does not hinder the operation of enterprises, does not create sub-licenses.


Of the 7 regulations related to the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in the Law on Cybersecurity, none of them are related to business activities of enterprises, nor are there any regulations requiring enterprises to provide services in cyberspace. requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sub-license to be allowed to operate.


Except for coordinating with the network security protection force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities as specified in Governing Body.Article 41 is related to warning, remedying and handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to fulfill any other obligations for their business activities. There is no provision on cybersecurity in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase, sale and business activities."	
"According to Colonel Luu Thanh Long - Deputy Head of the Internal Political Security Department, City Police. In Ho Chi Minh City, over the past time, many social network users have shown signs of violating the Cybersecurity Law, such as the case of spreading and sharing ""hot"" clips of singer Van Mai Huong. How to let people know if sharing, spreading this content online is against the law and will be handled.

On the forums, many opinions said that, in the past, many individuals spoke out against the Law on Cybersecurity. However, many cases have to resort to law enforcement agencies, need the Law on Cybersecurity to be protected, like the case of singer Van Mai Huong. This proves that the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary, so that whenever there are cases like this, there will be tools to deal with violators, or to prevent similar incidents from happening.

Recently, the Department of Information and Communications (TT & TT) of Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh invited famous artists such as Dam Vinh Hung, Cat Phuong, Ngo Thanh Van ... to work because of spreading false information about the Covid-19 epidemic situation on social networks, causing confusion. Fame. Notably, on February 12, the Department of Information and Communications of Ho Chi Minh City. Ho Chi Minh City has announced a fine of 10 million VND/person for these 3 artists, based on Decree 174 on sanctioning administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, information technology and radio frequencies. electric line.

Can be criminally prosecuted

According to Deputy Minister of Public Security Luong Tam Quang, taking advantage of the complicated developments of the Covid-19 epidemic, many objects have taken advantage of the cyberspace to spread fake and untrue information about the disease. The Ministry of Public Security has directed police units and localities to fight and handle according to law provisions. Up to now, the authorities have summoned the subjects, forced the removal of false information, committed not to repeat the offense. At the same time, based on the law to punish serious cases. If, after being administratively handled for spreading fake news, they re-offend and have sufficient grounds, they will be criminally prosecuted.

On February 3, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc signed Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP stipulating penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and Electronic transactions (effective from April 15) are considered to have clearer, stronger regulations and heavier penalties than the previous Decree No. 174/2013/ND-CP. This decree, when combined with the Law on Cybersecurity, which has been in effect since the past 13 months, is expected to ""match the two swords"" against ugly and harmful acts in the public cyberspace.

Specifically, Article 101: Violations against regulations on responsibility for using social networking services. Accordingly, the ""saints"" can be fined 10 - 20 million VND for taking advantage of social networks to provide and share fake information, false information, distort, slander. . personal and other secrets that are not subject to criminal prosecution.

Not only facing administrative fines according to decrees, people who take advantage of social networks to spread false rumors, infringe on the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, cause insecurity. in the public opinion at a serious level can be handled under the Penal Code with a sentence of 6 months to 7 years in prison"	
"It probably doesn't need to be said much, but all people know that they have been using the telecommunications network for obscure and illegal activities, so they are afraid and boycott the Law on Cyber ​​Security (ANM). Who are they?

They are drug dealers, prostitutes, smugglers through telecommunications networks. They are anonymous people on telecommunications networks to distort, oppose, and defame the reputation and dignity of other people and social organizations that they hate, distort, defame, discredit and oppose. Party and State of Socialist Vietnam. They use telecommunications networks to connect, collude with each other to terrorize the peaceful life of others or social organizations. They use the telecommunications network to connect and collude with reactionary and hostile forces at home and abroad to plot against and overthrow the people's government, plot against and overthrow the Socialist State of Vietnam. socialist. They use the telecommunications network to connect, to collude embezzlement, corrupt the country and harm the people, etc., and so on.
The entire Vietnamese people, please stay awake to see the true face of these evil people without believing in the things that the wicked and liars have propagated, misrepresented, provoked and completely fabricated. .
Currently, Vietnam is always in the group of 10 countries with the most cyberattacks in the world, fast-growing crime, information disorder in cyberspace, disinformation, libel, slander, etc. Infringement of dignity, violations of fine customs and traditions are rampant..., the national cyber infrastructure has many gaps and weaknesses. Typically, some reactionary elements have tried to use social networks to promote, incite and incite social riots, overthrow the government in the form of demonstrations in recent days. That's why they keep trying to oppose the ANM Law.

The ANM Law stipulates a lot of things, just to make it short and easy to understand: The law was born to help us have a legal basis to protect national sovereignty, security, user data and prevent illegal acts. violate the law such as cyberattack, espionage, terrorism, anti-state, theft, misrepresentation, fraud, incitement, etc. Thus, the birth of the law will not only help ensure sovereignty and security. national security on the internet, but also to clean up and bring about the safety of people's information.

Although the ANM Law brings many benefits, surfing through social networks, most people only care about Facebook and Google will leave Vietnam or some people often ""eat the waves, talk the wind"" that this is how the government silences the people, going against the 4.0 trend of the world.

In fact, since July 2017, Google and Facebook have set up thousands of servers in Vietnam, associated with enterprises with large network infrastructure such as Viettel, VNPT, FPT. Not only that, Facebook and Google are also free to rent server space. The servers host the information system related to the needs of Vietnamese people, helping Vietnamese customers to use Google services 2 times faster than usual because they do not have to make international connections. With a large population, the potential to develop advertising services is great, even if the law is stricter, Facebook and Google will never leave this lucrative piece of cake. Not only Vietnam, 18 countries that are members of WTO such as the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France, Denmark, Finland, Russia, Indonesia, China ... all have regulations to store data in the territory. country and the other two giants had to accept the rules of the game when they wanted to do business and make money from other countries.

The law was born to protect people's interests in cyberspace. Those who cry out for the law to silence, lose freedom and democracy are the ones who only do wrong things and violate Vietnamese law, so they are so afraid to face this law. The law clearly stipulates that only when there is a crime or investigation of illegal activities, the authorities will require the enterprise to provide information related to the subject of that crime. Therefore, if we are dignified, strictly obey the law, authorities will never control our information on the internet.

Not only Vietnam has the ANM Law, in Germany, when logging into Facebook, in addition to agreeing to Facebook's terms, you must also agree to comply with the German Cybersecurity Law specializing in social networks, abbreviated as NETzDG, in which stipulates sanctions for the crimes of Conspiring to use violence to subvert national security, Instructing others to use violence to threaten national security, forging information to affect foreign security, into criminal and terrorist organizations at home and abroad; collection of these organizations, Crime of instigating (violence, hatred), Crime of insulting beliefs, religion, Distribution, acquisition and possession of pornography…. EVERYTHING IS BANNED. Thus, Germany's cybersecurity law has many similarities with Vietnam's law. And we also see, Germany is still developing, human rights are still guaranteed, still integrated, there is no setback in terms of political economy.

Like in real life, the Internet is a society, although it is virtual, it has a profound impactIt extends to real life and therefore legal regulations to ensure internet safety is an essential need. The obvious lessons from using the internet to entice people to incite sabotage, which are still hot, are proof of the need for this law. Convinced that, with the Cybersecurity Law, our country will become more peaceful and safer so that we can fully focus on economic development, building this country into a place worth living. as we have always expected./"	
"Today's cyberspace becomes a new social space where people can perform acts of communication, creativity, labor, production, consumption, learning and entertainment, without restrictions. limited by space and time. However, along with great benefits, cyberspace is creating risks and challenges for national security, human security and social order and safety. Enemy forces take advantage of the Internet and social networks to distort the Party's platform, lines, viewpoints and ideological foundation; enticing and inciting disgruntled elements, gathering forces, and establishing opposing organizations; spreading documents, calling for marches and demonstrations, causing instability in political security, social order and safety. Right after the Law on Cybersecurity of our country was promulgated, it was also distorted, opposed and denied by some organizations and individuals who lacked goodwill.

Not only that, cyberspace can also be exploited to cause damage to property, spirit, health, and even human life. In the past time, there have been many online scams, people posting comments, comments, sharing, even making up false stories and clips that adversely affect their health and reputation. reputation and prestige of other organizations and individuals. From the above issues, it can be seen that protecting network security is more important than ever, this is not only the responsibility of the State and functional agencies, but also the obligations and responsibilities of each individual. citizen. Therefore, in order to build a ""healthy cyberspace"", in my opinion, every citizen needs to do the following things well:

Firstly, each individual needs to study and understand clearly the meaning, values, contents of the Cybersecurity Law, rights, obligations, responsibilities and prohibited acts when participating in cyberspace activities.

Accordingly, the Law on Cybersecurity aims to protect legitimate users in cyberspace; prevent, fight, and frustrate activities of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, oppose the State, propagate and destroy ideology, sabotage internal affairs, incite protests and disrupt forces of various powers. reactionary. Preventing, stopping, responding to and overcoming the consequences of cyber attacks and cyber-terrorism and preventing and combating the risk of cyberwar.

The Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates prohibited acts such as: using cyberspace to propagate against the State; organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State; distorting history...). These regulations do not infringe on human rights, do not hinder freedom of expression, do not create barriers, do not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals such as information on social networks. , blogs, reactionary websites that propagate and distort in recent times. Complying with the Law means protecting yourself, relatives and family, and at the same time, contributing to the protection of national cybersecurity.

Second, self-cultivate skills to identify conspiracies and tricks that pose a risk of network insecurity, especially plots and tricks of ""peaceful evolution"", riots and subversion of hostile forces. Identifying opposition organizations operating in cyberspace such as Viet Tan, the Provisional National Government of Vietnam...; tricks to create a cover for ""civil society"", ""democracy forum"",... to fight back; Fake websites, websites with a lot of bad and toxic information.

Everyone needs to know the tricks of cyber attacks such as knocking down websites; install it on a personal computer or get an account and password; stealing personal data (photos, videos); malicious code attacks (according to email attachments or hidden in Skype ads); anonymous attacks with malicious software (antivirus software, browsers); attack via USB, CD…

Third, Raise awareness of prevention and self-defense when participating in social networks. Research carefully before liking or sharing files, posts or links; beware of strange websites (dark web), unknown E-mails and suspicious links; absolutely do not be dua, curious, or greedy for money along with the words of incitement and instigation of bad objects. Timely provide information, comply with requests and instructions of competent state agencies and responsible persons.

Make good use of technical measures to ensure information security such as creating a habit of scanning for viruses; perform backups on an external hard drive, on a local network, or on cloud storage services; check the leakage of personal account information through the Vietnam Cyber ​​Attack Handling Center. When a network attack is detected, quickly disconnect from the network; use malicious decryption tools; notify the person in charge via the hotline.

Fourth, it is necessary to know how to make use of and use social networks properly and effectively, turning social networks into a means and a useful channel to expand knowledge and build a network culture environment together. a healthy society, avoid being influenced by virtual information, effectively contribute to the prevention and control of wrong and hostile thoughts and views.

Fifth, Popularize, propagate in the familyfamily, relatives, friends and people living in the place of residence shall comply with the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity so that everyone can grasp, understand and not commit acts of violation related to cyber security, contributing to building a ""space healthy network from the ground up”.

With its borderless nature, cyberspace has a global reach and impacts the whole world. The risks from cyberspace increase in proportion to the development and application of information technology in social life. Therefore, ensuring network security requires a total solution, from the promulgation and enforcement of policies and laws by state management agencies, creativity, autonomy in production, provision of products and services in cyberspace ensure the network safety and security of enterprises to the sense of participation in building a safe and healthy cyberspace of every citizen."	
"1. Cyberspace and its impacts on security and order

In the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, the concept of cyberspace is introduced. Accordingly, “Cyberspace is the connecting network of information technology infrastructure, including telecommunications network, Internet, computer network, information system, information processing and control system, database; is a place where people perform social behaviors that are not limited by space and time”.(1)[1]

Thus, Cyberspace is a broader concept than the Internet. It is the globally interconnected network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and processing and control systems in key industries, is a special environment ""virtual environment"", where people can exchange information and interact with each other, not limited by space and time.

From the beginning of the twenty-first century, the world entered the fourth industrial revolution. This is a revolution associated with the development of cyberspace, merging physical, digital and biological technologies, combining virtual and physical systems, fundamentally changing the way people create products, thereby creating a ""revolution"" in the organization of production - value chains. The connection and interaction through the Internet has opened a new era to promote the social development of people. type. Cyberspace has become a component and plays a very important role in building an information society and knowledge economy. Therefore, developing and mastering cyberspace is an important and urgent task of countries around the world.

The benefits that the Internet and social networks bring to people's lives are undeniable. However, in the virtual world - that digital ecosystem, it poses many challenges for each country, each people and moreover for all mankind, especially in assessing the authenticity of information. network, such as: The relationship between men and women… marriage, family; socio-economic situation to issues related to national security such as: East Sea situation, Vietnam - China - US relations...; are difficult to determine, difficult to verify the truthfulness of the information they receive or are interested in. This leads to bad guys being able to take advantage of the Internet and social networks for evil purposes, such as: Giving sensational information to catch views, sentences like; giving information about private life due to narrowness, selfishness... More dangerously, cyberspace is also a favorable environment to activate cyber weapons in overthrowing the political institutions of some countries where Events ""Arab Spring"" or ""Jasmine revolution""… are concrete examples. The use of cyberspace for terrorist activities, spreading terrorism, extremism, and military recruitment increasingly seriously threatens national security, emerging as an activity of the ""Islamic State"" organization. self-proclaimed IS"".

From there, it can be seen that, in today's era, issues of national security, social order and safety and human rights are facing new challenges. If in the past, national security was the protection of the sovereignty of the land, sea, airspace, social regime, etc., today, it is also the protection of cyber security. Former US President Barack Obama has said that: ""Cybersecurity threats have become one of the most dangerous national security and economic challenges facing the United States"" and ""the Internet has now become a weapon of destruction. mass extermination” (2)[2].

Many countries are well aware of threats to cyber security, consider this a new challenge, a new threat of high importance and danger, so they have concretized it into policies, laws or documents. Under the law, established a specialized force on cybersecurity, cyber intelligence, cyber warfare, and prevention of cyber-terrorism and cybercrime in more than 80 countries, organizations and international alliances such as the US, UK , Germany, the Netherlands, France, Canada, Korea, NATO... to create institutions and legal bases against threats to national security from cyberspace.(3)[3]

In Vietnam, the strong application and development of information technology in the fields of social life has greatly contributed to speeding up the process of industrialization and modernization of the country, economic and cultural development. culture, society, improve the quality of health care and education, bring into play the people's creativity and mastery, and maintain security and national defense. However, from the perspective of national security and social order and safety, it is this development that causes many negative problems, bad guys and hostile forces easily use telecommunications networks and the Internet. to propagate, sabotage ideology, sabotage internal affairs, incite protests, cause disturbances and riots in order to overthrow the government and change the political regime in our country. Appeared thousands of electronic information pages, blogs, social networking sites such as Zalo, Viber, Twitter ... especially Facebook, with bad content, posting depraved, violent publications, contrary to the fine customs and traditions of Vietnam. ethnic. Cyber ​​intelligence activities, cybercriminals are increasingly sophisticated and cunning, causing increasingly serious consequences...(4)[4]. They used hackers to attack the network, causing economic and social harm; Typically, hackers attacked a series of websites of domestic airports (March 2017)[5], causing many flights to be interrupted or canceled, causing great economic losses.

During the period from June 10 to 11 2018, hostile forces at home and abroad colluded with each other, taking advantage of the Internet and social networks to incite mass protests and cause trouble in some provinces. , cities such as Da Nang, Nha Trang, Binh Thuan, Ho Chi Minh City ... when the National Assembly discussed the Draft Law on Special Zones,[6] passed the Law on Cybersecurity.

Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is necessary to create a solid legal basis in identifying and handling acts that infringe upon national security, social order and safety, especially are acts of infringing upon human rights, legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals.

2. The provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity related to the protection of human rights in cyberspace

According to the explanation of the Drafting Board, the content of the Law on Cybersecurity is consistent with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, the United Nations General Assembly's Declaration on Human Rights (1948), the International Covenant on civil and political rights in 1966,[7] and other relevant documents, in accordance with the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the Penal Code, and the Vietnam Civil Code. The provisions of the Cybersecurity Law directly protect 05 human rights, specifically:

The right to life, liberty and security of the individual; the right to equality before the law and to be protected by the law; The right not to interfere with your privacy, family, residence or correspondence; The right not to be infringed upon personal honor or reputation; Citizens' right to freedom of thought, belief and religion; Citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. At the same time, the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity also create a basis to help authorities carry out activities to prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations. organizations and individuals.

Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically and clearly lists prohibited acts on network security, including acts that infringe on human rights, including some of the following acts:

Firstly, using cyberspace to perform the following acts: Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic Vietnam; Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and race; Misinformation causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals other persons; Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community; Instigating, enticing and inciting others to commit crimes.

Secondly, Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, Internet, computer networks, information systems, processing systems, etc. management and control of information and electronic means; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means; illegally infiltrating telecommunications networks, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases and electronic means of others.

Thirdly, Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies and organizations, personally or for personal gain.

Thus, acts that infringe on human rights such as: The right to life, freedom and personal security; interference with privacy, family, residence or correspondence; harm personal honor or reputation; infringing upon citizens' right to freedom of thought, belief and religion… are strictly prohibited by the Cybersecurity Law. At the same time, the Law on Cybersecurity does not contain prohibitive regulations on foreign service providers such as: Facebook, Google...; Citizens are not prohibited from participating in cyberspace activities or accessing and using information in cyberspace... However, in the case of individuals and organizations using cyberspace to commit violations. the law will be dealt with.

The handling of violations of the law on network security shall be carried out based on the provisions of Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity. Accordingly, depending on the nature and seriousness of the violation, the violator may be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability. under the law.

In terms of human rights, rights and interests of individuals, organizations, and businesses, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely free of any restrictions.any violation against the legitimate rights and interests of these subjects. On the contrary, the Law on Cybersecurity is an effective legal tool to protect legitimate rights and interests so that people and businesses can get rid of information ""pollution"", such as ensuring air, drinking water and information security. clean food for human health.

It can be said that there is no law that provides as many provisions to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace as the Law on Cybersecurity and never before has children's rights in cyberspace been protected. such protection.(1)[8]

Despite the benefits, the necessity of enacting the Law on Cybersecurity in Vietnam is undeniable. However, the very birth and application of sanctions of the Law on Cybersecurity is also a barrier for many opponents to take advantage of cyberspace against the Party and State. They misrepresent and believe that the handling of fake news, false information and malicious information is a violation of human rights and freedom of speech. Therefore, they devised many sophisticated and cunning tricks to slander and distort the superiority of the Cybersecurity Law, incite and call on people to take to the streets to protest against the National Assembly passing the Security Law. Internet with fabricated claims such as: The Cybersecurity Law is ""against humanity"", ""silences democracy"", ""suppresses dissent"", ""creates business barriers"", ""increasing costs for enterprises"", ""adding sublicenses"", ""abusing power"", ""banning the use of Facebook, Google""[9]... When researching and being well aware of the Cybersecurity Law, it can be affirmed: ""Absolutely not There is a story that the Cybersecurity Law infringes on privacy, freedom of expression and the right to use the Internet.” We clearly see that the Law on Cybersecurity does not have the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not grant sublicenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful operation of organizations and individuals. On the contrary, the Law is protecting the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations in cyberspace.[10]

Thus, the provisions restricting the right to protect national security, public order and individual rights specified in the Cybersecurity Law are fully compatible with international human rights law.[11] The negative reaction to the Cybersecurity Law by bad actors is understandable. Because, with hostile forces, political opportunists, anti-regime and anti-State elements, this is a legal tool, depriving them of important weapons that they can use to accomplish their goals. goal of opposing, overthrowing and transforming our regime into the path of ""democracy"" and ""human rights"" imported from abroad. On the contrary, for the State and our people, the promulgation and strict implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is one of the important guarantees and an effective measure to ensure human rights, legitimate rights and interests. of citizens. This is a legal weapon to prevent and handle abusive and abusive acts in order to protect national security, social order and safety, human rights and citizens' rights.

One thing is for sure, a prerequisite for human rights to be protected is a peaceful, stable, free and equal environment. In other words, it must be a country without wars, ethnic conflicts, religious conflicts and political conflicts. We see very clearly the consequences of countries affected by the ""Arab Spring"" movement, such as: Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Libya... What they wanted at that time was democracy and human rights. and a prosperous life for the people. But the actual outcome is war, destruction, famine, looting, death and suffering, causing tens of thousands of people to flee their homeland, creating a massive migration wave to the neighboring countries. European countries and other countries. Therefore, the Public Security force in general and the Security force in general need to do a good job of propagandizing and mobilizing the masses, helping the people understand the position, role, importance and need of the public. of the Law on Cybersecurity for the protection of national security, social order and safety, the protection of human rights, and legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals in cyberspace. Since then, there is a sense of alertness, correct identification, to eliminate hostile, wrong and supportive views to ensure the effective implementation of the Cybersecurity Law."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the XIV National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 5th session on June 12, 2018 and took effect from January 1, 2019.

The Law contains Chapter 1 - General provisions, Article 8 - Prohibited acts on network security, Section d - False information causing confusion among people, causing damage to economic and social activities society, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals.

Why is the release and spread of false information noticed by Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law as well as similar laws of many countries around the world? That is due to the nature and degree of danger that fake news can cause to national security, the economy as well as safety and social order.

[Vietnamese Press Caricature Award: 'Hot' about behavior on social networks]

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the US spent 11 years studying 126,000 rumors and fake news on Twitter and found that fake news spread faster than real news, was posted more. The reason is that fake news is ""hotter"" and the popular topic is politics, followed by news related to economy, terrorism, science, natural disasters...

The results of MIT's research published in the journal Science show that fake news is retweeted 70% more than real news; real news took 6 times longer than fake news to reach 1,500 internet users; True news rarely has more than 1,000 shares, while many fake news have up to 100,000 shares.

Internet users are dominated by the sensational nature of fake news, regardless of how much of it is true or not at all. Because we live in an era of information saturation, the more unique, strange, creepy, and violent news is, the more it attracts online users.

Social networks develop like a storm with the connection of hundreds of millions of people on the planet with positive and negative sides. The negative side is evident when fake news is not controlled and the “creator” who spreads fake news is not responsible for his or her actions. Cyberspace is increasingly being used by criminal, terrorist, anti-subversive and extremist groups to cause social disturbances, smear individuals, organizations, and even an entire country. The Chicago Board of Crime Prevention and Control (USA) said that more than 50 criminal groups here use social networks - Facebook, Instagram, Twitter ... to trade drugs and carry out illegal activities. other.

Information from Google technology company shows that in Southeast Asia, including Vietnam, the Internet is developing at the fastest pace on Earth with an online community of more than 400 million people. This also entails ""hidden corners"" from social networks.

The Indonesian Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education has called on the authorities to strictly monitor social networking sites to prevent the spread of extremist ideology among young people, especially students. This comes after police in June 2018 discovered a group of alumni using social media to plan a bomb attack on Aras Mulyadi University.

The Thai government has planned to spend millions of dollars to deploy a system to store and analyze social network data to avoid the spread of malicious fake news on the Internet. In Malaysia, the anti-fake news law imposes a prison sentence of six years for those who spread fake news online.

According to Vietnam's Ministry of Information and Communications, this agency has granted operating licenses to 436 social networks with many users, including Facebook, Youtube, FB Messenger, Zalo, Google+... As for We's 2018 report. are Social said that Facebook has over 55 million members in Vietnam, accounting for 57% of the population.

Vietnam is also ranked 7th out of 10 countries with the largest number of Facebook users in the world with the age group 25-34 making up the majority. The Internet and Social Research Program (VPIS) of the University of Social Sciences and Humanities shows that hate speech by social network users in Vietnam is expressed in defamation and defamation. accounted for 61.7%), slander, fabricated (46.6%), ethnic discrimination (37.01%), sexism (29.03%), disability discrimination (21.76%) ), religious discrimination (15.09%).

A large part of netizens in Vietnam believes that in a virtual environment like a social network, no one is responsible for their statements. Moreover, the handling from the domestic authorities faces legal barriers because most of the social networks have servers located abroad.

In many cases, social media dominates the mainstream media in guiding public opinion in sensitive cases. We have learned a valuable lesson when fake news, distorted news, and misrepresentation of the truth spread on social networks, inciting disgruntled, extremist, ignorant people to rebel and fight like in self-interests. using environmental issues in Formusa Ha Tinh, protesting the Draft Law on Administrative Units-Special Economic Zones, the Law on Cybersecurity...

Luat Security can understand luc: Tin Gia... Trach Nhiem That Picture Anh 2
Deputy General Director TUVietnamese news agency Le Quoc Minh. (Photo: Hoa Mai/Vietnam+)

Media expert Le Quoc Minh (Deputy General Director of Vietnam News Agency) in his presentations to journalists in Vietnam has repeatedly affirmed not to underestimate fake news and must have a sense of prevention early. Fake news has been quietly appearing in Vietnam for a long time, but few people pay attention. Even if fake news becomes a ""global crisis"" after the US presidential election, many people in the country still do not take it seriously.

But it can be affirmed that fake news is really a threat to society. In the world, fake news is rampant and Vietnam is no exception to this trend. We have seen a lot of innocuous, even misleading, content that has been widely distributed by social media users. Among those who share such false information on social networks, there are also reputable, influential figures, even said to be ""more knowledgeable"" than many other users, such as journalists. newspaper.

According to expert Le Quoc Minh, Internet users must be careful, consider and verify information before ""entering the mind"" or sharing with others information that is spread online, especially about sensitive issues. affecting national security, national economy and social order.

Before the Law on Cybersecurity took effect, the sanctions in the 2017 Penal Code were not enough of a deterrent against slanderous and insulting acts that smeared the image of the country and the reputation of organizations and individuals. There has been a breach of the law.

According to the general perception in the online community in Vietnam, the fact that “false information causes confusion among people…,” in other words, “fake news,” is not a serious violation of the law. , even just the act of ""joking, amusing,"" at most only being ""reminded.""

However, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates very clearly in Article 9 - Handling of violations of the law on cyber security: ""Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, if they are disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability, if causing damage, they must pay compensation in accordance with law.""

Thus, the birth of the Cybersecurity Law is a timely and necessary decision to protect national security, social order and also protect network users themselves, and at the same time build a healthy network environment. safe.

It is time for network users to be highly conscious of their behavior on social networks if they do not want to bear civil and even criminal liability."	
"The fact shows that, along with the process of international integration, the development of cyberspace and the fourth industrial revolution has been making great contributions to socio-economic development; and at the same time change the perception, behavior and lifestyle of people. However, besides those great benefits, cyberspace also poses many risks and challenges, directly affecting sovereignty, national security and social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests. legislation of organizations and individuals. Faced with the above fact, on June 12, 2018, at the 5th session of the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, term XIV, passed the Law on Cybersecurity No. 24/2018/QH14, which took effect. from January 1, 2019. It can be affirmed that the introduction of the Law has contributed to perfecting the legal basis to protect the sovereignty, interests, national security, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities on the Internet. cyberspace; building a healthy cyber environment...
 
The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. The law was prepared meticulously and thoroughly, with the participation and comments of ministries, functional agencies, more than 30 large telecommunications and information technology enterprises in the country such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV; many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US-ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association; foreign representative agencies such as the US, Canada, Australia, Japan... and the public opinion.
 
Right after its birth, the Law on Cybersecurity has received high approval and support from the vast majority of the people because they are well aware of the practical benefits brought by the Law. This has also been proven clearly and effectively in the past time, when there are many articles and false information on the internet about the situation of the COVID-19 epidemic. Taking advantage of the complicated situation of the epidemic, many subjects have provided false information for personal gain, confusing public opinion, and affecting epidemic prevention and control. Facing that situation, local authorities across the country have stepped in fiercely. Accordingly, those who spread false information have been strictly handled according to the provisions of law; Social networks must remove the above information and publish official information from the competent authority.
 
According to Major General Nguyen Van Giang, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention - Ministry of Public Security, over the past time, the police force has made a list of hundreds of objects and organized summons. , fought nearly 200 cases and administratively handled more than 30 cases of spreading false information about the COVID-19 epidemic. In Nghe An, recently, there have also been 7 cases of being summoned by the authorities to work for spreading false information on social networks. Not only are ordinary people, over time, some artists in Ho Chi Minh City have also had to work with the authorities and have been fined for administrative violations for posting false information on social networks. about the COVID-19 situation.
 
This once again affirms that anyone, regardless of position or work in any field, if living, studying and working in the territory of Vietnam, the compliance with the laws of Vietnam is an inevitability.
 
Back in early 2019 - the time when the new Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, besides the support of the vast majority of the people, there were still some conflicting opinions. Even many subjects with bad intentions and motives took advantage of the situation to incite and claim that some of the contents specified in the Law would ""violate human rights and stifle freedom and democracy."" , freedom of speech"". However, reality has proven quite the opposite. The introduction of the Law has really made the environment of cyberspace become much more cultural and healthier because of information with bad content, affecting moral standards, fine customs and traditions of the country. have been prevented and handled seriously and effectively while the people's right to freedom of speech is still guaranteed as long as such activities are within the limits permitted by Vietnamese law. As for the trading and exchange of goods in cyberspace over the past 1 year, it has still taken place smoothly. The actual recognition shows that most business subjects support the Law coming to life with specific and strict regulations in this field.
 
According to statistics, up to now, nearly 140 countries have enacted Cybersecurity Laws with the common goal of better ensuring security and safety in cyberspace. This is the most concrete and clear evidence for the effectiveness of the Law in recent years. HoweverHowever, in order for the Cybersecurity Law to continue to be more effective in the coming time, in addition to the efforts and efforts of the authorities in the process of perfecting the legal system, it is more important that each Internet users need to be very alert to choose reliable information; especially to live, study and work with a serious and effective spirit of respecting Vietnamese law"	
"Hostile and reactionary forces oppose the ANM Law in order to obstruct and cause panic and suspicion among the people; some objections due to lack of understanding of cyberspace, not understanding the law, even some people who have never read this law also follow other people's objections.

Right at Article 1 of the Law on Security, it was affirmed that ""This Law provides for activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety on cyberspace"". This is the purpose that all countries in the world have stipulated in their laws to protect their sovereignty, national interests, national security, and legitimate rights and interests of citizens.

Citizens' legitimate rights and interests are always protected

The Law on ANM also stipulates that the principle of ANM protection is ""guaranteeing the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals"". The State applies all measures to protect national cyberspace; prevent and handle acts infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals on cyberspace. This Law also prohibits all acts of infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals specified in Article 8.

Obviously, ""lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals"" are protected by the ANM Law and the State will apply all measures to implement such protection. In particular, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals are protected most clearly in Chapter III, which fully prescribes measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. , detect and handle violations of the law. Accordingly, users only violate this law and will be handled when using cyberspace to propagate against the State, incite riots, disrupt security, disrupt public order, humiliate, slander, invade violate the economic management order (such as promoting false information about goods, fraud...), infringing on business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private lives of others...

The violations of the law prescribed in the Law on ANM have also been scatteredly regulated in 29 articles of the Criminal Law of our country. Many countries around the world have very specific provisions in their ANM Law to regulate the above acts.

The Federal Republic of Germany based on their Criminal Law to develop the Security Law, in which there are 25 articles that stipulate the prohibited acts and handling when using cyberspace to operate to conspire to use violence to overthrow the National Security. , instructing others to use violence to threaten national security, instigating criminal acts, disrupting public order by threatening to use illegal acts, etc.

Thus, the ANM Laws of other countries and Vietnam prevent threats to national sovereignty and ethnicity, threats to infringe upon citizens' legitimate rights and interests, against bad guys, not ""against human"". This law prohibits the use of cyberspace to appeal against the government, terrorism, threaten the interests of users, etc., does not prohibit people from free speech, freedom to express opinions, such regulations are very democratic.

In particular, the ANM Law to prevent unauthorized collection of user information like Facebook, which leaked the information of at least 87 million users around the world, was discovered in March 2018, of which Vietnam has 427,446 user accounts whose data has been collected.

That rule is to protect users. Therefore, all citizens can feel secure, freely trade and exchange information on cyberspace if they do not violate the provisions of the ANM Law. Only those who operate shady, non-transparent on cyberspace are concerned.

There is no such thing as Google, Facebook leaving Vietnam

Some comments are concerned that the provisions of the ANM Law will make Google and Facebook leave Vietnam. However, Google and Facebook are service companies with the aim of making a lot of profit, so they have compromised with governments in other countries to choose a safe, legal solution that is not fined or banned. .

Therefore, they themselves approached the drafting committee to develop Vietnam's ANM Law to negotiate and accept the provisions of the draft law, so that they could still operate in the Vietnamese market safely. secure and still earn legitimate profits under Vietnamese law, without being prohibited. On the other hand, currently Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world to operate and make profits.

At a meeting with the Ministry of Information and Communications on April 26, 2017, Ms. Monika Bickert, Facebook's global head of product policy, affirmed that she would cooperate with the Government of Vietnam and pledged: ""All Contents of sexual abuse, hate attacks, libelous information, insulting others' reputation... will have no place to hide and we are committed to removing bad, toxic, illegal information. Vietnam on the social network Facebook; Let's work together to build a healthy and safe network environment in Vietnam"".

It can be seen that the hostile forces' plots against our State never change, so they find every way to distort the truth, by all means to influence a part that lacks understanding of cyberspace. , on e-commerce, to protest the promulgation of the ANM Law. Everyone should be cautious, alert, do not turn themselves into a toolpropaganda without pay, aiding the hostile forces, for the bad guys. Users can rest assured that when operating on cyberspace, the ANM Law does not prohibit or limit the rights of users, but also protects the users' legitimate rights and interests on cyberspace."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was passed at the fifth session, the XIV National Assembly, with a very high consensus rate of 86.86%. The necessity of this law is not only to protect national security but also to protect people and create a healthy social development environment in cyberspace. However, over the past time, on the internet and social networking sites, hostile forces and bad objects still make many misleading statements, false information, taking advantage of the people's patriotism to incite people. demonstrations, mass gatherings with the aim of rejecting the role of the Cybersecurity Law, causing insecurity and disorder.
      With its universal characteristics, unlimited in space, time, interactivity, and rapid spread, the Internet creates many benefits but also brings great challenges, profoundly affecting all fields. of the social life and development of each country. In Vietnam, the Internet has a very strong development speed. However, in recent times, the cyber security situation in Vietnam has had complicated developments, with law violations appearing in cyberspace, such as propaganda, misrepresentation, slander, anti-Party and government activities. country; online fraud, theft, gambling, betting, prostitution; activities inciting, attracting demonstrations... causing irritation in the society. Hostile, reactionary forces and political opportunists thoroughly take advantage of social networks to spread news, articles and video clips with content against the Party and State; propaganda, incitement, spreading false information, deception, demagogy, confusion, attracting the attention and monitoring of the online community, causing a part of netizens to lose direction and mistakenly believe that that is true, leading to skepticism and lack of trust in the Party and State.
      Especially, during the time when the National Assembly discussed the draft Law on Special Administrative - Economic Units; Before, during and after the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity, on the internet and social networks, there were many arguments that: The Cybersecurity Law is ""too tight, unnecessary, affecting freedoms"" People's democracy"", ""strangling freedom online"", ""obstructing the future of Vietnam""... These are very dangerous propaganda claims, contrary to national interests, not theoretical and practical basis. Even in some localities such as Ho Chi Minh City, Binh Thuan, there have appeared activities to incite people to cause trouble, destroy property, oppose public official, disrupt security and order, cause consequences. serious results. Therefore, the formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is to create a legal corridor to ensure security on the internet, not only to protect national security but also to protect people, businesses, and create a safe environment. healthy development of society in cyberspace; is an effective tool to prevent and remove bad information, poison against the Party and State, incite protests, and unlawfully gather large numbers of people. The Law on Cybersecurity does not restrict the democratic freedoms of citizens like the statements posted on social networking sites, but this Law provides relatively adequate measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate remove threats and handle law violations, do not prevent or infringe on freedom of expression in cyberspace. Activities of communication, exchange, posting, sharing of information, buying and selling business and commerce are still guaranteed in reality, not prevented or prohibited, only violations of the law. just processed. If an organization or individual drafts, posts, or distributes information in cyberspace with anti-State propaganda content; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliation and slander will be prevented, removed and held liable according to the law (Article 15).
 




 Provincial Police held a conference to thoroughly grasp the Cybersecurity Law for its members
 
      With the scope of regulation of the Law, organizations and individuals operating in the cyberspace environment will be assured of safety and health, minimizing factors and risks of infringing upon legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals such as information theft, fraud, appropriation of property, slander, humiliation, gradually eliminating acts of gambling, betting, propaganda of depraved cultural products inciting violence violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace. Therefore, the Law on Cybersecurity will closely protect the interests of internet users, reduce risks for regulators and consumers, and promote and improve business activities in the process of land integration. country.
      In order to prevent and limit the negative impact of misrepresentations, denials and denials of the role of the Cybersecurity Law, to help cadres, party members and people of all classes be more fully aware of the purpose of the Law on Cybersecurity. The content and meaning of the Law on Cybersecurity requires the active participation of the whole political system, party committees and authorities at all levels in the synchronous implementation of solutions to improve management efficiency. and use of information on the Internet. To carry out this work, the Quang Tri Provincial Police have thoroughly understood the purpose and importanceand the necessity of the Law on Cybersecurity to officers and soldiers in the whole force; Directing the Public Security units to strengthen the work of protecting internal politics, protecting state secrets, not to create loopholes for bad actors to take advantage of incitement and misrepresentation on social networks; attaching importance to measures of propaganda, education and information orientation for cadres and soldiers in order to raise awareness of bad and toxic information of hostile forces, timely detect, prevent and fight. effectively counter the tricks of those who take advantage of democracy, human rights, religion and ethnic groups to conduct anti-social activities; In unit meetings and thematic activities, there are announcements about plots, tricks and activities of ""peaceful evolution"" of hostile forces taking advantage of the internet to oppose the Party and State so that cadres and soldiers can be vigilant and cautious in using social networks, and at the same time post and share official information, examples of good people and good deeds, comment and contribute correct social criticisms, contribute to Law on Cybersecurity into real life."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that prohibited acts are acts that are harmful to the regime and state of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity of the Fatherland, and national security. , social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. These acts are regulated in the Penal Code; Most of them are illegal acts that have been regulated and referenced from real life to cyberspace, some acts are also regulated by a number of legal documents of other countries. Therefore, there is no basis to think that the prohibited acts in the Cybersecurity Law are ""violating human rights"", ""strangling freedom of democracy and freedom of expression"".


      - The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain any provisions that prevent or infringe upon citizens' freedom of expression. The activities of communication, exchange, posting, sharing information, buying and selling, doing business, commerce... still take place normally in cyberspace, are not prevented or prohibited as long as the activities are not restricted. that does not violate the law of Vietnam. Citizens can do anything in cyberspace that is not prohibited by Vietnamese law. On the contrary, in Chapter 3 of the Cybersecurity Law on prevention and handling of acts of infringing upon network security, there are provisions to protect free speech activities, legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals when buying, selling, doing business, exchanging and trading in cyberspace.


      - Law on Cybersecurity does not disclose personal information of users. In contrast, personal information is strictly protected by the Cybersecurity Law. According to the provisions of Article 17, relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals are responsible for protecting business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life on the Internet. cyberspace. Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled. The law also stipulates that for the specialized force to protect network security, if abusing or disclosing users' personal information will be handled in accordance with the law.


      - The Law on Cybersecurity does not control all personal information of users. Only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cybersecurity, the Law on Cybersecurity requires enterprises to provide personal information related to such violations. The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures, approved by competent authorities. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.


      - The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google, Youtube, etc. Vietnamese people are still free to access the websites of Facebook, Google, Youtube or any other social networking sites in Vietnam. domestically and internationally. In contrast, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates cybersecurity protection measures for people when participating in activities on social networking sites. However, anyone who uses any social networking site to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law.


      Currently, the situation of fraud and crime in cyberspace is becoming more and more common and serious; activities contrary to fine customs and traditions, video clips with depraved content are propagated and distributed in cyberspace..., affecting cultural and spiritual life and causing damage in many aspects to life. people, even threatening the interests of the nation and nation. The Law on Cybersecurity was born as one of the legal bases to ensure human rights, legitimate rights and interests of citizens, organizations and individuals participating in activities in the network environment. This is also a legal weapon to prevent and handle acts of taking advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of citizens, organizations and individuals. core."	
"The risk of information insecurity is a big and growing threat to national security. The article focuses on analyzing and clarifying the information security situation in Vietnam in the current conditions, pointing out the problems posed in ensuring information security and key solutions to improve efficiency. ensure information security of Vietnam in the coming time.

After 35 years of renovation, Vietnam's information system has developed strongly, effectively serving the leadership, management and administration of the Party and State, meeting the information needs of the society. contribute to ensuring national defense and security. The fields of telecommunications, Internet, radio frequency have had strong development, achieved the goal of completely digitizing the network, developing many new services, expanding the service range, initially forming new services. strong enterprises, capable of reaching regional and international reach. The system of postal delivery, press and publishing has developed rapidly in terms of quantity, quality and professional techniques, making important contributions to the socio-economic development; ensure national defense, security and foreign affairs.

However, the information security situation in Vietnam has been complicated. Foreign special agencies, hostile and reactionary forces have increased their intelligence, espionage, terrorism, and information system sabotage activities; Disseminating bad and malicious information in order to influence internal politics, interfere, and guide Vietnam's policies and laws. Increasing cyberattack activities targeting important national information systems and information systems important to national security. According to statistics, on average each year, through inspection and control, the authorities have discovered over 850,000 documents of psychological warfare, reactionaries, international amnesty, and illegal heretical propaganda materials; Nearly 750,000 propaganda documents against the Party and State were distributed into Vietnam by post. From 2010 to 2019, there were 53,744 portals and websites with .vn domain name hacked, of which 2,393 times were portals and websites of Party and State agencies "".gov. vn"", there were many attacks with political color, causing serious consequences [1].

Crimes and law violations in the field of information are complicated, increasing in number of cases, sophisticated tricks, causing serious damage in many aspects. Acts of sabotaging information infrastructure; causing unsafety, normal and healthy operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, electronic means of agencies, organizations, individuals and radio communication systems, etc. have been caused. great economic losses, directly infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. According to the results of a cybersecurity assessment conducted by Bkav Technology Group, in 2019 alone, the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users reached 20,892 billion VND (equivalent to 902 million USD). ), more than 1.8 million computers lost data due to the spread of ransomware (ransomware), many of which contain data of agencies, disrupting operations. activities of many agencies and enterprises [2].

Vietnam's information system still has many weaknesses and security holes that are easily exploited, attacked and penetrated; the situation of disclosure and loss of state secrets through the information system increased dramatically; the phenomenon of illegal exploitation and use of national databases, information resources, and personal data of users is complicated; The appearance of many new and modern services makes it difficult for the management and control of the authorities. From 2001 to 2019, the authorities discovered more than 1,100 cases of disclosure and loss of state secrets, of which disclosure and loss of state secrets through the information system accounted for a large proportion with over 80% of cases. ]. In March 2018, Facebook also disclosed personal data for a developer to sell to Cambridge Analityca Company, leading to 87 million user information data being exposed, including 427,466 accounts of Vietnamese users. Male [3].

The above fact has created many threats to Vietnam's information security both inside and outside. In the country, first of all, there is the risk of technology lag, dependence on foreign technology, especially the core network system; system software, foreign information services (especially social network services) leading to the loss of sovereignty of digital content and information resources about foreign technology companies more and more seriously; opportunistic subjects, oppose domestic politics, thoroughly use social networks to spread fake, bad and toxic information in order to cause internal disturbances, incite protests and riots.

Externally, hostile forces thoroughly used the information system to influence, intervene internally, guide policies, manipulate public opinion, and promote the ""color revolution"" in Vietnam; infringing upon national independence and sovereignty in cyberspace, waging an information war against Vietnam. Reactionary organizations in exile and terrorism have increased their activities to attack and sabotage the systemimportant information system on national security; using cyberspace to spread bad and harmful information, incite protests or riots; forming associations, groups, opposition political organizations, etc. Hackers, criminal organizations carry out spontaneous, single or purposeful cyber attacks against critical information systems. national, paralyzing, disrupting the leadership, direction, administration and socio-economic management of Party and State agencies.

In that context, central and local agencies, departments and agencies have focused on researching, developing and applying synchronously solutions to enhance information security. Besides the achieved results, the work of ensuring information security in Vietnam is currently facing many difficulties and challenges. The potential to ensure information security, both in terms of people, finance and technical and technological infrastructure, has not yet met the requirements for ensuring information security in the new situation; the effectiveness and efficiency of state management of information security is not high; capacity to detect and handle activities infringing upon information security and incidents causing information insecurity of agencies and units is still limited; effective application of science and technology in ensuring information security has not met the requirements and requirements of the new situation, etc.

Currently, our country is facing great risks and challenges from the 4th Industrial Revolution with the development and strong application of artificial intelligence, robotics, and biotechnology. forming many new fields such as: ""Industrial Internet"", ""Smart Factory"", ""Smart City"", ""Super Smart Society"", ""E-Government"" ... operating in the air environment cyberspace, creating a breakthrough in economic, political and social development. The Internet of Things (IoT) trend, including the Internet of things connected to energy, services, multimedia, people and things, will change the way an economy operates, habits, psychological, cultural and social. The socio-economic development as well as ensuring national security in Vietnam in the coming years will mainly be based on the digital platform. With the development trend of the sharing economy, digital transformation, etc., the information technology industry will become the main economic sector, determining the rapid and sustainable development of the country.

Information security in Vietnam in current conditions - Problems and solutions
Therefore, in order to improve the effectiveness of ensuring information security in the coming time, it is necessary to pay attention to the synchronous implementation of the following solutions:

Firstly, raising awareness of information security and ensuring information security. It is necessary to realize that information security is independence, sovereignty, national interests in the information space, safety, stable and strong development of the information field and national information system. Information security is the central content of national security in the new conditions, having a close relationship with other traditional security issues such as internal political security, military security, cultural security. ideology, economic security, social security. The risk of causing information insecurity is a big and growing threat to national and international security. Therefore, ensuring information security is an important and regular task of the entire Party, the people, and the whole political system, in which the People's Public Security force is the core. To ensure information security, it is necessary to attach importance to and use synchronously political, legal, scientific and technical measures, propaganda - education, organization - administration, economy, diplomacy and professional skills. subject.

In the coming time, functional agencies should strengthen education, fostering and raising awareness of cadres, party members and the masses; focus on propagating and disseminating to students about the risks and factors causing insecurity, threatening to cause information insecurity. Since then, raising awareness in the use of information services, especially services provided by foreign countries; improve political bravery, the ability to recognize and receive information, self-defense ability, ""immunity"" against fake, bad and malicious information. There is a plan to include content on identifying risks and factors causing information insecurity and responsibility for ensuring information security into the national education system, thereby educating awareness, responsibility, improving public awareness on this issue.

Second, to study to establish national sovereignty in cyberspace, to ensure the preservation of national independence, autonomy, sovereignty and interests in the international information space; effectively protect and exploit national information resources.

Vietnam needs to selectively absorb international experience, focus on research, and establish a national cyberspace (with infrastructure, services, and legal framework) in order to soon assert its national sovereignty in cyberspace. . Identify the constitutive elements and promote solutions to effectively enforce national sovereignty in the information space: (1) Develop hardware technology to ensure autonomy in means and equipment, especially is the core network system, computer, telephone, information infrastructure; (2) Developing software technology to create its own software ecosystem, including: operating system, search engine, social network and service applications on the Internet; (3) Develop own security technology and security inspection and monitoring system in order to actively detect, prevent, block and filter fake, bad and malicious information; (4) Building an integrated, interconnected and secure national database system (Big Data) to facilitate digital transformation and digital economy development; (5) Building a modern, safe and responsible information-oriented and propaganda system; separate attack and defense systems, especially key information systems of the Party and State and in the field of security and defense; (6) Building and perfecting institutions, policies, laws and a developed service market.

First of all, it is necessary to have a specific mechanism to concentrate resources to build up Vietnam's own social network, search engine, and utility operating system that is compatible with international standards and has a strong foothold in the market. school and in society. This, on the one hand, affirms the country's position, ensures independence, self-reliance and national sovereignty in cyberspace, gradually reduces dependence on foreign technology, improves security and autonomy in ensuring information security, ensuring national economic interests, facilitating the preservation and promotion of national cultural values, taking the initiative in receiving information and facilitating in information and propaganda of the Party and State, effectively preventing bad and harmful information, increasing the ability to ensure the confidentiality of users' personal information. At the same time, it is necessary to have a reasonable plan to exploit and protect national information resources to serve economic and social development, and to ensure national defense and security.

Third, strengthen the leadership and direction of the Party, the centralized and unified management of the State, improve the effectiveness and efficiency of state management of information security. Focus on developing and perfecting policies and laws on information security assurance, creating a legal environment to ensure safety and reliability for the digital economy, for the sharing of digital data, for management. manage the operation of enterprises providing information services across the border into Vietnam. Continue to study and develop laws on anti-fake information, bad and harmful information; personal information protection law. There is a mechanism to publicly monitor, block and filter misleading and untruthful information in cyberspace; specific regulations and strictly implement the mandatory use of real information when registering an account online. Developing a code of conduct in cyberspace; regulations on protection, inspection and use of national information resources and personal data of users.

Fourth, absolutely ensure the safety of important national information systems, important national security information systems, improve defense capacity, and recover from attacks on information systems. , effectively fight against information security infringing activities of hostile forces and criminals.

The government needs to increase investment in modern infrastructure, have enough bandwidth to overcome attacks that cause network congestion, and have a backup storage system to redirect data before attacks and recover. after the network attack. Regularly review, detect and fix security holes throughout the system, add specialized equipment and software capable of checking and controlling security and information safety in the telecommunications network environment. internet, radio frequencies, etc. Develop, deploy and implement specialized technical solutions to check and detect risks of information insecurity. Organize annual drills on national-level cyberattack prevention and control with the participation of government agencies, key economic groups, enterprises providing telecommunications and Internet services and agencies, relevant organizations, ensuring timely handling of risks causing insecurity, threatening to cause information insecurity in Vietnam.

Focusing on forecasting and implementing solutions to combat and neutralize the activities of infringing upon the information security of the subjects, especially the attack activities that paralyze the important national information system; the intention to use artificial intelligence (Al), big data (big data) to manipulate and provoke public opinion, creating conditions to promote the ""color revolution"" in Vietnam; and conspiracies and intentions of hostile forces, hegemony to militarize the information space, and to launch an information war against Vietnam.

Fifth, concentrate resources to build and gradually develop the information technology industry, especially the information security (cybersecurity) industry of Vietnam.

With the current resources of Vietnam, it is necessary to focus on developing the information security industry in the direction of dual-use, combining both in the civil field with ensuring security and defense; public-private partnership. The State needs to have a special mechanism, immediately implement solutions to take shortcuts, take the initiative to gradually master and export information technology. Encourage research, development, useg Vietnam's own software and information services, meeting the requirements of information security, the safety of state secrets, and network security monitoring. Building strong domestic information technology enterprises, providing telecommunications and Internet services, mastering the market, forming a force of service-providing enterprises capable of self-manufacturing security equipment. information.

The Government should promulgate a mechanism to encourage, support and mobilize organizations and individuals to start-up in cybersecurity technology, information technology enterprises, and domestic telecommunications and internet service providers to master market; forming enterprises capable of self-manufacturing, providing services, equipment and solutions associated with network security protection, increasing the localization rate of information technology products. Establish investment funds for research and development of solutions to ensure information security.

In the era of industrial revolution 4.0, information security has become an increasingly important content of national security. Research on information security, ensuring information security is therefore always an urgent requirement today. The analysis of the information security situation, the problems posed and the solutions to ensure information security in the article are only initial research results, please boldly raise them for discussion."	
"Specifically, they use some false claims such as banning Facebook, Google, etc. in Vietnam to use a private network like China; only Vietnam and China are required to set up a server to store user data in the country; Vietnam's cybersecurity law requires ""Provide all user information to the state, including private, private messages...;; Cybersecurity law violates human rights and no country has this law….

However, in the ANM law, Vietnam only requires foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to store in Vietnam their data. important data of service users in Vietnam.

To date, more than 18 member countries of the WTO (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France, etc.) have made it mandatory to store data within their national territory.

The full text of the law requires ""Providing user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on security."" network"". That is, when it is necessary to provide information, that person must be a criminal, and must have a document from the Ministry of Public Security. You did nothing wrong, no one took your information.

Many countries already have Cybersecurity laws and regulations are much stricter in Vietnam. In Germany, the Ministry of Justice is very serious about Cybersecurity, they give clear instructions to Facebook if it is not well managed so that people can incite violence, curse online, misrepresent, they will be fined directly from Facebook to Facebook. Facebook users. In Korea, if you keep using social media to curse at idols a lot to see if you will receive a lawsuit from their management company soon...

Users of social networks (MXH), if they do not violate the following: Fabricating, defaming and defaming without personal or organizational evidence, inciting violence on Facebook, fabricating information without evidence precisely, propaganda calls to disrupt public order and national security. If you do not violate the above, please use MXH freely, no one bans the use of MXH and prohibits speech. But I have to take responsibility for my online speech, if I don't like it, I will say it if it's wrong. And of course, if someone slanders and slanders others, there are laws to protect them...

In fact, throughout the 7 chapters and 43 articles of the Law on Cybersecurity, in addition to the provisions on the rights and obligations of organizations and citizens in cyberspace, along with the form of handling for acts of Cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime... The Cybersecurity Law details prohibited acts in cyberspace and will be strictly handled such as: Posting and distributing information information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; information with content that humiliates or slanders others...

Obviously, with the above shown, the Law on Cybersecurity is not only a common civilized code of conduct for the whole society in the field of network information technology, but it is also an important legal basis to ensure security. security and safety for the Fatherland and people, minimizing factors and risks of infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace. Currently, 138 countries around the world have had Cybersecurity Laws. Like other countries, Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law only requires foreign businesses providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to store in Vietnam for important data of service users in Vietnam, rather than banning organizations and individuals from using services in cyberspace, especially social networks such as Facebook, Google...

In Section a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the regulations on ensuring information security in cyberspace, users only have to authenticate and provide their information to the specialized force for cybersecurity protection under the Ministry of Information and Communications. Police at the request in writing to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security. That is, only when we violate the law in cyberspace, we are forced to provide information, but if we do not violate the prohibitions as mentioned above, no one is entitled to obtain personal information. multiply us. In Article 3, the Law on Cybersecurity, which stipulates the state's policies on cybersecurity, clearly states that, in addition to encouraging and creating conditions for all organizations and individuals to participate in cybersecurity protection, the State has the responsibility to Responsible for building a healthy cyberspace that does not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. To ensure the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, at Point a, Clause 1, Article 17 of the Law, it is clearly stated that all acts of appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing information secrets belonging to state secrets, national secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life, affecting then honor, prestige, dignity, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace. Not only that, the Law on Cybersecurity also attaches special importance to children's rights in cyberspace as defined in Article 29. Notably, in Clause 1, Article 29 clearly states that children have the right to be protected. , access to information, participate in social activities, keep private life secret and other rights in cyberspace. This proves that the Law on Cybersecurity is very humane and progressive.

From the legal bases and code of conduct specified in the Cybersecurity Law, we need to be aware that the Cybersecurity Law is very necessary. The imposing allegation of hostile and reactionary forces when talking about the Cybersecurity Law are all subjective personal attributions, not based on scientific grounds. In other words, the Law on Cybersecurity was born as a sustainable ""legal steel pile"" to ensure that the State and our people are always kept safe in cyberspace.

Faced with the dark motives, ambitions and intentions of hostile and reactionary forces that distort Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law, officials, party members and people need to actively research, properly perceive and propagate It is necessary for families and people to promulgate this law, as well as the scientific, correct and human nature of the Law. Since then, together condemn, refute and expose the acts and tricks of the bad guys against Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law."	
"Currently, on social networks and newspapers in some Western countries, there have appeared arguments linking the Cybersecurity Law (ANM Law) with human rights issues in our country.

However, it is an obvious fact that the ANM law is not a ""specialty"" of Vietnam alone, but many countries around the world have been applying the ANM law with different names. And the common purpose is to ensure that activities in the internet space do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations as well as individual users. network.

In the world, ANM is an urgent issue in the context of increasing global cybercrime activities. Cybercrime can be fraud on the internet, putting computer viruses into the computer systems of state agencies and businesses. It is the act of stealing network user account information and passwords. It is also the fabrication and sharing of fake news, smearing individuals, groups, social classes or above, an entire country or nation...

In the US, the issue of ANM is very important. On October 27, 2015, the US Senate passed the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Bill (CISA) to create a solid defense system in cyberspace. Recently, the US Government has also issued a number of new regulations on ANM, amending the old regulations to make the issue of ANM more closely guaranteed. These are the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, the Federal Exchange Data Breach Notification Act, and the National Cybersecurity Enhancement Act as amended. And despite having the most secure security system in the world, America is still not safe from cyberattacks. In July 2017, hackers breached the systems of Equifax, one of the three largest credit bureaus in the US, to steal the personal data of 145 million people.

In the European Union (EU) the first ANM Law came into effect in May 2018. Organizations, businesses and individuals using the network are required to strictly comply with the provisions of this law or they will be severely fined.

In Germany, in July 2015, the National Assembly passed the ANM Law to prevent crime on the internet. This law contains specific provisions for users of social networks, including the prohibition of inciting the use of violence to infringe upon national security, the prohibition of inciting illegal acts, the dissemination of ideological extreme...

In Australia, the legal framework on ANM is considered to be complete, including the Law on Cybercrime, the Law on Spam Email, the Law on Telecommunications and the Law on Privacy.

In Japan in November 2014 Basic Law on ANM was promulgated. According to this law, the Government of Japan developed the ANM strategy and established the ANM Strategic Command with the aim of enhancing the effectiveness of ANM policies.

In Singapore the powers of the ANM Authority were greatly expanded. According to the ANM Bill, which was submitted to the National Assembly not long ago, this agency is allowed to proactively apply necessary measures to ensure national cyber security. Organizations, businesses and individuals are forced to cooperate immediately with the ANM Agency to fight cybercrime. Non-cooperative subjects can be imprisoned for up to 10 years.

Thailand, on the other hand, applies very strict internet censorship laws. Congress passed the Computer Crimes Act in December 2016. According to this law, a 5-year prison sentence is given to those who post fabricated and false information on the Internet that undermine national security, social safety, national economic stability, infrastructure, etc. public facilities or cause confusion among the public. A five-member committee was set up to remove information online that ""violated social ethics"". Maybe. 128 million baht (equivalent to 3 million USD) will be spent to equip social network tracking technology.

Vietnam is said to be a vulnerable country to cybercrime. Our country ranks 100th in the world and is at the bottom of the ASEAN region in terms of ANM. Because ANM is not guaranteed, in 2017 information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, causing about 12,300 billion VND in damage. The ANM vulnerability puts Vietnam at great risk when entering the 4.0 industrial revolution.

Recently, on social networks, there has been a lot of distorting and inciting information in order to sabotage political security and destabilize the socio-economic order; threaten national independence, sovereignty, regime survival, slander and smear organizations, mass organizations, enterprises and individuals.

Typically, the case of some subjects posting cropped and distorted images on Facebook, Youtube, etc., inciting protests and riots under the pretext of opposing the Law on Special Zones and the Law on Cybersecurity. One of the sad consequences of this trick is that on the afternoon of June 10, 2018, many extremists in Binh Thuan blocked Highway 1, flooding into the headquarters of the Provincial People's Committee, the Department of Planning and Investment, and attacked the security forces. protect and destroy property.

There are times in Vietnam when fake news on social media usurps the power to lead public opinion and overwhelm press agencies. Readers are immersed in the sea of ​​true and false information, and the danger is that the percentage of readers who believe in fake information is very high. According to Bkav (the companyexperts on cybersecurity in Vietnam), up to 63% of internet users regularly read fake news on Facebook and are affected by them.
There are many examples of this:

In July 2017, the national public was stirred by information about the plane crash at Noi Bai airport, accompanied by pictures of chaos at the airport. Then the functional forces investigated and discovered the fact that a Facebook user had fabricated to ""catch likes"", to serve the cosmetic business.

In February 2017, Facebook also appeared on a fan page impersonating ""The Police Newspaper"" and posted a clip about the case of an overseas Vietnamese demanding ""confrontation"" with Tan San Nhat airport staff because they thought that luggage was stolen at the airport. Vietnam. However, the truth is not like that. As a result, the aforementioned fake news has created a distorted and ugly image of the country and people of Vietnam.

In the past time, social networks have been racing to post information about child abductions (which are not real) in one province, another province, causing panic, affecting the security and order situation in other provinces. direction…

Vietnam's ANM Law was born in that context and is an urgent requirement of real life.

The ANM Law is not ""falling from the sky"" but is a systematization and legalization of Vietnam's regulations on cyber security management that have been promulgated before. The ANM Law has the purpose of regulating relationships in cyberspace in order to protect national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

It should be clearly understood that the ANM Law of Vietnam does not contain any provisions restricting citizens' right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The fact that this Law concretizes prohibited acts when exercising citizens' rights to freedom of speech and freedom of the press is because these acts have been defined as violations of the law in the Penal Code.

Those who believe that the ANM Law violates freedom, democracy and human rights are those who have a one-sided view, prejudice, lack of objectivity, ignoring the fact that freedom, democracy and human rights are the rights of every child. people, provided that those rights do not infringe on the freedom, democracy and human rights of others, the community, the nation, or the nation!"	
"In the past time, in addition to using cyberspace for healthy and pure purposes and content, many people have done ugly things and violated ethical and legal standards.

Posting sensational, fabricated information online for the purpose of saying like is no longer strange. More dangerous is slander, humiliate others. Extremely dangerous is information that distorts and incites to sabotage political security and destabilize socio-economic order and safety; Threats to independence, national sovereignty, regime and state survival... Typically, the leaders, pulling strings through social networks, have provoked some people to gather and cause trouble to oppose the project. Drafting the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units and the Law on Cybersecurity.

Opponents argue that the Law on Cybersecurity is a violation of freedom, democracy and human rights.

They have ignored the fact that freedom, democracy and human rights are the rights of every human being, provided that they do not affect or infringe on the freedom, democracy and human rights of others and the community.

To ensure the harmony of freedom, democracy, and human rights of all, ethical and legal standards were born.

Using cyberspace, including social networks like Facebook and Youtube to express their opinions, is the right of every person, but must be in accordance with ethical standards and legal regulations.

The Law on Cybersecurity includes many contents, mainly protecting citizens' freedom to use cyberspace. The acts prohibited in this Law are also regulated in the Penal Code, such as humiliating others, inciting others to cause trouble, overthrowing the people's administration... form of expression (speech, writing in real life and in cyberspace), but the essence and consequences are the same.

In addition, it is easy for readers to confuse or network administrators intentionally confuse articles and video clips on social networks as official electronic newspapers.

Since then, in terms of consequences, the prohibited acts in cyberspace are many times larger than in real life, because of its rapid propagation time in its unlimited space.

It can be said that the Law on Cybersecurity is one of the tools to protect the freedom, democracy and human rights of citizens in the context of information on social networks being disturbed, cheating black children, because of the schemes of people who want to protect their citizens. discontent, opportunistic, reactionary."	
"The Law consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles that regulate activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals.

Before voting to approve the entire draft law, the National Assembly voted to approve Article 10 - Important information system for national security and Article 26 - Assurance of information in cyberspace.

For Article 10, there were 423 delegates in favor (86.86%), 20 delegates disagreeing (4.11%), 19 delegates did not vote (3.08%). As for Article 26, there were 398 delegates in favor (81.72%), 41 delegates disagreeing (8.42%) and 24 deputies did not vote (4.93%).


 Voting rate of approval of the Cybersecurity Law project

Regarding regulations on information security in cyberspace, the Law requires domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to be responsible for: authenticate information when users register for digital accounts; secure information and user accounts; provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.

Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data on personal information data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam.

8 Important information systems for national security

The law stipulates that an information system important for national security is an information system that is damaged, infiltrated, hijacked, falsified, disrupted, halted, paralyzed, attacked or sabotaged. will seriously compromise network security.

 

Delegates of the National Assembly press the button to vote on the bill

Accordingly, 8 information systems have been identified in this category, including: Military, security, diplomatic, and cipher information systems; Information system that stores and processes information belonging to state secrets; An information system in service of storing and preserving artifacts and documents of particularly important value; An information system serving the preservation of materials and substances especially dangerous to humans and the ecological environment; An information system serving the preservation, manufacture and management of other particularly important facilities related to national security; An important information system serving the activities of central agencies and organizations; The national information system in the fields of energy, finance, banking, telecommunications, transportation, natural resources and environment, chemicals, healthcare, culture and press; Automated control and monitoring systems at important projects related to national security, important national security goals.

The Law also assigns the Prime Minister to promulgate and amend and supplement the List of important information systems for national security.

“Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively sanctioned or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law” - Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity clearly states."	
"In recent days, the social network community seems to be ""waking up"" by conflicting information related to the Law on Cybersecurity that has just been passed by the National Assembly. Many social network users believe that, along with the passage of the Cybersecurity Law, many social networks will be killed in Vietnam. Vietnamese users will be banned from free speech, restricted in many civil rights... Such perception is not true to the nature of the problem, as well as the role and meaning of the Cybersecurity Law.

     As we know, in the era of digital technology 4.0, the Internet and social networks are indispensable spiritual food for people. And in that so-called ""social network"", there are also many forms, and duality, or as many people often say, social networking as a double-edged sword is no exaggeration.

     If not, why do we still have to try to censor our children when they are engrossed in surfing the web, participating in social networking sites. What do we wonder about? That is the fear when children fall into the dark web, which is not educational but encourages violence and debauchery. That's when social networks become a bad friend of children, a mirror that tarnishes their thoughts, life concepts, and personality...

     Not only in our country but also in most countries around the world, network management is always a top concern. Any state must care about national security, the survival of the country. Next is to protect the citizens of their country in the best way. Perhaps among us, no one supports the fact that criminals thoroughly take advantage of the Internet's utilities, especially social networks, to conduct activities to infringe on security and order, causing instability in society. The problem is how the network management will be, as Assoc. Ho Chi Minh City, how to develop information technology, develop the digital economy in the 4.0 era and maintain national security in cyberspace. He said: ""We must ensure that Google or Facebook continue to operate in Vietnam, protect network users in accordance with the law, so that they have nothing to worry about.""

     Currently, many social network users are concerned that some websites such as Google or Facebook will no longer provide services to the Vietnamese market, so they turn to oppose the Law on Cybersecurity. While deliberately not understanding, the actual provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity for this issue like.

     In Clause 3, Article 26 on ensuring information security in cyberspace, it stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam. Nam has activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam.

      Some people object to the rule that a server must be located in our country. So, have any of us ever asked, which countries want to operate those sites, where are their servers located? Even the US, if they don't have servers in their country, will the websites be free to operate? The state manages and stores data, in addition to national security, it is also to protect its citizens.

      From 2016 up to now, there have been tens of thousands of cyber attacks targeting our country's information system. Not to mention that the Internet is used to propagate, distort, incite activities against the State, insult personal dignity, fabricate information, cause economic and financial damage, and cause confusion. society.

      We are worried that the ""big guys"" on social networks like Facebook and Google will not pay attention to the Vietnamese market, and we cannot use these websites. But if we are calmer to see that, according to the data by the end of 2015, in Vietnam, Facebook is currently ranked No. 1 in terms of online revenue with sales of more than 3,000 billion VND (equivalent to 150 million USD). , Google is in second place with 2,200 billion VND (about 100 million USD), then we will understand, for those capitalists whose profit always comes first, with a market like that, will they ignore it? ?

       In addition, many social network users also believe that the Cybersecurity Law infringes on their privacy when it is mandatory to provide information about their account when requested from the authorities. They think that the law has invaded too much about their privacy, personal information. But every day, even hourly, every minute, there are hundreds of thousands of users of social networking sites originating from foreign organizations, social networking sites that are not clear whether good or bad, in many different ways. Through devices, modern digital technology has stolen their personal information without their knowledge. Such personal information is then sold, used for what purposes, andHow can we control it, when the websites are all overseas?

       The Law on Cybersecurity is a framework, many laws such as Clause 3, Article 26 and many others still have to wait for the Government to detail it by a decree guiding the implementation. And we, with our responsibility as citizens, should make constructive contributions, to make the law more complete, to make the Government's guiding decrees more specific and clear, not only protecting our owners. national security interests and rights, but also to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, ensuring the construction of a healthy cyber environment for the government. we"	
"Do not finish the job, that is the answer of Ha Huy Duc - Captain of the High-tech Crime Prevention Team, Criminal Police Department (Nghe An Police) when asked about the situation of crime using high technology. “In 2018, the Criminal Police Department, Nghe An Provincial Police discovered 10 specialized cases, arrested, prosecuted and administratively handled 76 criminals and violated the law using high technology.

6 out of 8 subjects were prosecuted and detained by Thai Hoa Town Police in the special project of eliminating online gambling lines. Photo: P.B
6 out of 8 subjects were prosecuted and detained by Thai Hoa Town Police in a special project to eliminate online gambling lines. Photo: P.B
Compared to 2017, an increase of 6 cases, 30 subjects. The police agency has also received hundreds of cases of denunciations and reports related to crimes using high technology, with losses of more than 30 billion dong,"" Major Duc said, adding that in the first quarter of 2019. The department has not aggregated but the number of cases and subjects is increasing. The nature of online scams is also increasingly complex, making investigation more difficult.
Subjects engaged in online fraud and material evidence. Photo: Pham Bang
Subjects engaged in online fraud and material evidence. Photo: Pham Bang
An example is the City Police. Vinh coordinated with the professional departments of the Ministry of Public Security to crack the case, arresting 13 subjects from Quang Tri province for hacking facebook and then fraudulently appropriating property. Initially, the police agency clarified that this group had defrauded more than 500 victims and earned more than 20 billion dong. “Each case they appropriate with an average amount of 50-100 million dong, but there are also some cases more than 300 million dong. Victims of this group of people are all over the provinces, cities, and even abroad. When we rushed in to arrest, this group was also fooling a woman in Ho Chi Minh City. Da Lat 50 million"", Lieutenant Colonel Nguyen Huu Cuong - Deputy Chief of the City Police. Vinh said.

Not only scams, acts of taking advantage of the internet to organize gambling through games are increasingly popular. At the end of April 2019, the TX Police. Thai Hoa has dismantled an internet gambling line with very sophisticated forms and tricks through the game ""explosion jar"", prosecuted 8 accused and handled 40 subjects. The special thing is that this line works everywhere, from Ha Giang to Ha Tinh. In Nghe An province, these subjects set up second-level agents in TX. Thai Hoa, Nghia Dan, City. Vinh then ""recruited"" gamblers to kill each other online.

It is necessary to prevent violations of the Law on Cybersecurity Photo 3
“The Investment Police Agency determined, in many provinces and cities across the country, there are about 23 other level 1 agents of this gambling line. On average, hundreds of gamblers participate in every minute with transaction amounts up to hundreds of millions of dong. Initially, identifying and proving that the amount of money used by this line to turn virtual money into real money and vice versa is about 10 billion dong"", Lieutenant Colonel Tran Ngoc Tuan - Head of the TX Police. Thai Hoa said.

Need full awareness

In fact, prohibited acts in cyberspace are specified in many articles of the Law on Cybersecurity, which covers a wide range of fields and issues. Currently, there is no specific report summarizing the cases of violations of the Cybersecurity Law handled by the authorities of Nghe An province.

In this article, we only mention the behaviors that have occurred and have been verified and handled by the authorities in the past time. In which, the most typical are 2 acts of giving false information, causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for the operation of State agencies or candidates. performing official duties, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other organizations and individuals, and appropriating property; organizing gambling, gambling via the internet; theft of international telecommunications charges on the internet and in cyberspace.

Luong Ngoc Tuan's false comment on social networks.
False comments about the collapse of the Muong Moc dyke (Nam Mo Hydroelectricity) on social networks made many people confused.
One day at the end of July 2018, Mr. Luong Ngoc Tuan (resident in Dien Ngoc commune, Dien Chau district), then was an engineer in the repair team of Nam Mo Hydropower Plant in Ta Ca commune, Ky Son district wrote on the social network. Facebook meeting with the content: ""The Muong Moc dyke 90 trees from Nam No is about to break, the possibility of Muong Xen town being wiped out tonight. Ah, I still have time to move…”. In fact, at that time, Nam Mo Hydropower was carrying out flood discharge according to the process to ensure the safety of property and people's lives, so the water on the Nam Mo River was rising. Tuan's comments caused confusion and worry for people in Ky Son and Tuong Duong districts.
Many families have relocated their properties because they believe in the information written by Tuan. After conducting the verification, Ky Son District Police worked and asked Luong Ngoc Tuan to immediately delete the above comment and post an apology to the people on his personal page. Tuan was also later signed by the Chairman of the Ky Son District People's Committee to impose an administrative fine of 12.5 million VND for posting false information on the social network Facebook.
Or as recently, Mr. Le Huu Thuan- Deputy Secretary of the Party cell, Head of the Faculty of Marxist-Leninist Theory, Ho Chi Minh Thought (Tran Phu School of Politics, Ha Tinh province) has just been suspended from his post. The reason is that he posted false information about the health of senior officials of the Party and State on his personal Facebook page. Currently, the Inspection Committee of the Party Committee of Ha Tinh Province's Agencies and Enterprises is considering the extent of Mr. Le Huu Thuan's violations to make a decision to discipline him. Obviously, this is an act that shows signs of serious violation of the Cybersecurity Law and the Party's and State's regulations, especially what party members are not allowed to do. Mr. Thuan's work has seriously affected his own honor and reputation of the Party organization and the school, causing frustration among cadres, party members and public opinion.

Hundreds of people in Xa Luong commune, Tuong Duong district went to the mountain because of false information about the collapse of the Ban Ve Hydropower Dam on social networks. Photo: Documentation
Hundreds of people in Xa Luong commune, Tuong Duong district went to the mountain because of false information about the collapse of the Ban Ve Hydropower Dam on social networks. Documentary photos
The case of Luong Ngoc Tuan, or Mr. Le Huu Thuan is just one of many examples of unverified information but untrue comments and opinions on Facebook just for the reason ""for fun"". "". Or like child abduction information, over time, the frequency and density of people posting, sharing and commenting is quite dense on social networks. When the authorities verify, the information is not true. However, as a result, many people believed, and from there acted wrongly. If according to the Law on Cybersecurity, these are all illegal acts and will be strictly handled according to regulations.
It must be affirmed again that the National Assembly's promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is necessary, thereby ensuring national security, social order and safety and the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals. Therefore, people need to have a full awareness and a correct attitude towards acts in cyberspace. All violations will be strictly handled in accordance with the law, without exception and cannot be justified as ""for fun"", ""don't know""."	
"In that context, the fact that some domestic and foreign opinions oppose Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law is an act of lack of goodwill and irresponsibility to society and people. Because of their narrow (even dark) will, they have been deliberately hindering the safe and healthy development of Vietnam.

On April 1, 2015, in the face of increasingly damaging cyberattacks for the United States, then-US President B.Obama issued a declaration of a national emergency with cyber-attacking activities. valid until April 1, 2018. After three years, when cyberattacks continue to be a serious threat to national security, foreign policy and the US economy (as of February 2018, the representative of the US Government published a statistical losses due to cyberattacks in the US in 2016 amounted to about 57-109 billion USD), on March 27, 2018, President D. Trump announced the extension of the national emergency with cyberattack activities. until April 1, 2018. And recently, an article on news.zing.vn said, according to The Verge, on July 17, 2018, the US Congress made a conclusion that forced Facebook to be more aggressive, even deleting illegal pages. the law; The US Congress also pointed out that some pages that attract a lot of views specialize in spreading fake information, unverified conspiracy theories such as Infowars, Milkshakes, etc. that can incite violence; US lawmakers also pressured Facebook to remove many other pages, most of which are related to political views in the US...

 

In Asia, on July 20, 2018, a representative of the Singapore Government said that the data system of SingHealth - the largest health insurance organization in the country, was attacked by hackers. Specifically, from May 2015 to July 2018, hackers accessed and stole personal data belonging to 1.5 million SingHealth users, including addresses, patient identification numbers who visited clinics. , hospital; In particular, the prescription information of 160,000 patients was also stolen. It is worth mentioning that Singapore is always rated as one of the world's leading countries in terms of cybersecurity protection. According to the Singapore Government representative, this is a deliberate cyberattack, affecting more than 25% of Singapore's population, directed at a specific target, not the work of ordinary hackers or criminal gangs. perfectly planned.

In another aspect, on July 25, 2018, Facebook announced that it had removed 196 pages and 87 individual accounts based on this social network's platform in Brazil. These are pages and accounts used by a right-wing political group to spread fake news ahead of the Brazilian presidential election held in October 2018. Notably, the locked pages belong to a network that uses fake Facebook accounts, the owners of these pages hide the nature and origin of the posted content to intentionally create division, spread information. false news. Facebook's resolute action is the result of June 2018, Facebook and Google signed an agreement with the Supreme Electoral Court in Brazil to combat the spread and dissemination of fake news...

With Vietnam in the trend of the fourth industrial revolution, the rapid development and change of science and technology, with the number of users as well as applications in life increasing sharply..., security issues Networking is becoming more and more important. Besides development opportunities, this field also has many potential and unpredictable consequences. Notably, cybercriminals and cyber attacks are increasing in both scale and sophistication and complexity into the nation's important information infrastructure. According to statistics from the Vietnam Computer Incident Response Center (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, Vietnam's internet was threatened by more than 10,000 cyberattacks, causing 12.3 losses. trillion. According to VNCERT, from the beginning of 2018 to May 2018, there were 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks entering Vietnam. Recently, VNCERT said that by the end of July 2018, this center had recorded many targeted attacks by hackers into the information systems of some banks and important national infrastructure in Vietnam. . To conduct attacks, hackers perform fraudulent tricks, combine high-tech measures to bypass information security protection systems to gain control of users' computers, through which attacks internal computer systems that contain important information. On July 26, 2018, BKAV announced that its virus monitoring system detected a type of spying malware called BrowserSpy. This is a very dangerous computer virus because it has the ability to spy on users, collect searches, read emails and web browsing history, steal personal information, Gmail, Facebook passwords, etc. Bank accounts… According to BKAV, so far more than 560,000 computers in Vietnam have been tracked by BrowserSpy malware, and the number is continuing to increase…

The above news events are also enough to clearly show that cyberattacks have become a type of crime causing national insecurity, economic losses and personal insecurity, becoming a global concern... Security e-government networkhe is just a risk or a risk, but becoming a threat across borders, has been and is a problem that governments and individuals in countries have to face. And the fact also shows that today every field of social activity can always be the object of cyber attack. Cyberattacks not only target the economy, defense, technology, science, etc., but also issues of political opinion, social regime, culture, education, infrastructure, social security. , aviation management, traffic, ... are also the subject of cyber attacks. This requires that in order to protect national security, governments of countries must develop and issue legal documents not only to combat cyber attacks, but also to organize, manage, operate and handle activities. related to the internet, ensuring the safety and health of the society, and protecting citizens. That is the basis for explaining why the legal document on cyber security is a system related to all fields of social and human activities when using the internet, as Article 1 of the Law on Cybersecurity of Vietnam (effective in this regard). (effective from January 1, 2019) defines the scope of regulation: ""This Law stipulates activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals""; and the concept of cyber security is specifically explained in Article 2: ""is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests. of organizations and individuals"". In fact, Vietnam's adoption of the Law on Cybersecurity is considered by a large number of experts and the Internet user community as a necessary move to help protect Vietnam's sovereignty in cyberspace as well as ensure the safety of Internet users. users before the potential risks in today's network environment...

However, knowing that when the Law on Cybersecurity takes effect, their impure and evil activities are at risk of facing the law more directly, so hostile forces and some organizations , individuals with a lack of goodwill have loudly protested despite the interests in the field of social and human activities mentioned by the Law on Cybersecurity. These individuals and organizations only focus on one law related to their activities to conduct a campaign of denial, slander and distortion. (Unfortunately, some governments and international organizations also joined them, deliberately exerting pressure.) For example, commenting on RFI on June 12, 2018, a so-called ""person, intellectual"" expressed his ""most worrying"" thing that the Law on Cybersecurity ""swapped the concept... to silence his mouth."" the people… do not benefit the country, but lead astray…”. That said, it proves that this ""person"" does not care about other important contents of the Cybersecurity Law, ignoring the issue that when the Law takes effect, the economy, culture, etc. of the country are protected. how to defend. At the same time, he himself changed the concept, used the trick to turn the part into the whole, so that from a law in the Law on Cybersecurity, it did not meet his will but denied the entire legal document. According to this person's one-sided approach, Vietnam does not need to protect network security, bad guys are free to attack the country's infrastructure system, attack banks to steal money, mess up the public relations. operating e-government, inciting violence, selling counterfeit goods, promoting terrorism, causing aviation accidents. All individuals using the Internet in Vietnam must therefore accept that they are always at risk of being stolen personal information, bank accounts, email, Facebook... are publicly or anonymously, impersonating to spread fake news, spread false statements, oppose the country, incite opposition, spread countercultural products to poison the young generation, attack the cultural foundation nationalization, etc. can self-edit on the internet without being punished. Regrettably, these kinds of statements have misled some people's thoughts, to join their voices in protest and criticism. Although many people have never studied carefully and carefully about the Cybersecurity Law before, to realize that this law is one of the legal tools that directly protects the society they live in, and protects themselves and others. Dear.

A civilized society is a society in which all citizens have a spirit and sense of respect for the law. In order for the country to stabilize and develop, along with the efforts of the government, all citizens, professions and organizations, the sense of law observance must be one of the factors that play a dominant role, ensuring basic principles that determine the safe and healthy development of society. If you deliberately go against or destroy those principles, it is irresponsible to society and people. At the same time, it must be affirmed that Vietnam is a sovereign country, no government, no organization or individual can give themselves the right to interfere with that immutable sovereignty. Therefore, those who are trying to find all ways to slander, fabricate or distort calls for ""disobedience to the Cybersecurity Law"" should stop, do not make themselves subject to legal action."	
"Along with the process of international integration and development of information technology, especially the fourth technological revolution, the current situation and situation in cyberspace has set an urgent requirement in protecting security. national security, ensuring social order and safety for cybersecurity work. In order to have a legal basis to lay the foundation and conduct research, forecast and development of solutions to ensure network security - currently not focused, there is no orientation to manage and ensure network security. for future-changing technology trends such as the 4th industrial revolution, cloud computing, big data, fast data. In addition, in order to prevent and limit cyber security risks, it is necessary to develop a process and mechanism for checking and assessing the current state of network security that are appropriate and consistent across the country. At the same time, develop a mechanism to share information and notify the network security situation to raise awareness about network security and proactively prevent possible cyber security risks.

Firstly, it is necessary to prevent, fight and frustrate activities of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, oppose the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, propagate ideological destruction, internal sabotage, and sabotage the great bloc. unite the whole nation, incite protests, disrupt security in cyberspace of hostile and reactionary forces.

Second, cybersecurity work must prevent, prevent, respond to and overcome consequences of cyber-attacks and cyber-terrorism. Currently, cyber attacks targeting Vietnamese information systems are increasing in number and dangerous levels. Every year, our country's information network system suffers from thousands of cyber attacks, causing serious damage to national security, social order and safety, causing thousands of billions of dong loss per year and a huge amount of money. subject to conduct illegal acts of infiltration and collection of information and documents. Meanwhile, as cyber terrorism emerges as a global challenge, cyberspace has become an environment for international terrorist organizations to propagate, recruit, train and direct their operations.

     Third, to prevent, prevent and eliminate agents conducting cyber espionage activities, appropriating state secret information and documents in cyberspace, publishing state secret information and documents. water in cyberspace. Currently, this situation is continuing to get serious.

Unifying the focal point in emergency response to cyber security incidents

Fourth, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity aims to protect information systems important to national security by level and apply necessary security measures. This is the information system of important national targets, important national infrastructure, and state secret agencies, so the consequences and damage will be greater than the normal information system if it is attacked. network or network security incident. These consequences and damages may adversely affect national security, cause disasters such as disrupting aviation operations, national electricity grids, road traffic systems, operating systems, etc. nuclear facilities, control systems and automatic handling of air defense systems, key industrial facilities. The protection of this information system not only includes inspection and evaluation of the operation process, but must also conduct the appraisal right from the time of building the design documents and operating the information system so that the information system can be operated quickly. detect and remove network security threats.

Fifth, regulate and unify the implementation of monitoring, forecasting, response and exercise for emergency response to cyber security incidents. Although the Law on Cyberinformation Security stipulates on responding to cyberinformation security incidents, in essence ""cyber security is the protection of information and information systems on the network from being accessed, unauthorized use, disclosure, interruption, modification or destruction in order to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability of information"", so response to cyberinformation security incidents can only be promoted. the role of ensuring the integrity of information and information systems, not responding to harmful agents that exist within or affected by other subjects.
Meanwhile, monitoring, forecasting, responding and rehearsing for emergency response to cyber security incidents is a unified process. The analysis of network security incidents directly related to crime scene traces and signs, contributes to the investigation and handling of violations of the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. room. Therefore, unifying the focal point in monitoring, forecasting, responding and rehearsing for emergency response to cyber security incidents.

Define network security standards and technical regulations

Sixth, this Law stipulates standards and technical regulations on network security and licenses for business in network security assurance services. The Law on Cybersecurity raises the issue of licensing network security services because a network security service is a service that deeply interferes with the operating system, information system, and has the ability to access sensitive information. emotions, state secrets, business secrets, inside information.

Saturday, AutumnThis law is also necessary to implement cybersecurity protection in the system of state agencies from the central to local levels, which have many unresolved security ""holes"", officials' awareness, employees are still limited, not aware of the necessity of network security. Information systems of state agencies are being subjected to cyberattacks, many cases of leaking and leaking state secrets have occurred, and the status of posting state secret information and documents on the internet is still not uncommon. still exist.

      Activities to prevent and fight against the use of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, including: handling information inciting mass gatherings to disrupt security and order in cyberspace; handling information that is against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, is contrary to morality, fine customs and traditions in cyberspace; preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting information and documents classified as State secrets drafted, stored and exchanged in cyberspace; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; emergency situations on network security; measures to be applied when there is an increased risk of a cybersecurity emergency; ensuring human resources to participate in protecting national sovereignty, interests and security in cyberspace.

    Therefore, in order for the Law to come to life soon, the authorities should soon issue specific and clear guiding documents for the Law, and at the same time have effective and practical solutions to propagate the Law.

Important legal corridor to protect cyberspace

Regulations on information systems important to national security, prohibited acts on network security and information not being posted in cyberspace... are notable contents of the Cybersecurity Law.

Regulations on important national security information systems

The law stipulates that an information system important for national security is an information system that is damaged, infiltrated, hijacked, falsified, interrupted, disrupted, paralyzed, attacked or sabotaged. will seriously compromise network security. Accordingly, 8 information systems have been identified in this category, including: Military, security, diplomatic, and cipher information systems; Information system that stores and processes information belonging to state secrets; An information system in service of storing and preserving artifacts and documents of particularly important value; An information system serving the preservation of materials and substances especially dangerous to humans and the ecological environment; An information system serving the preservation, manufacture and management of other particularly important facilities related to national security; An important information system serving the activities of central agencies and organizations; The national information system in the fields of energy, finance, banking, telecommunications, transportation, natural resources and environment, chemicals, healthcare, culture and press; Automated control and monitoring systems at important projects related to national security, important national security goals.

Since then, the Law stipulates cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security, including appraisal, assessment, monitoring, response and troubleshooting of critical information systems. National security. At the same time, the Law stipulates: “Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively sanctioned or examined for penal liability. the; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law” - Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity clearly states.

Prohibited acts in cyberspace

Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity lists prohibited acts in cyberspace. Any activity that is banned is in fact banned in cyberspace.

Specifically, there are 06 groups of prohibited acts: Using cyberspace to organize acts of organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, manipulating, training and training anti-government people Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals; Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health. Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes; Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, infiltration, hijacking, falsification, interruption, disruption, paralysis or destruction of information systems important to national security; Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; Distributing computer programs that harm network operationscomputers, telecommunications networks, electronic means; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means; Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling network security protection measures; Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. …

Information that is not posted or distributed online

The acts prescribed by the Law on Cybersecurity as acts of infringing upon network security are specified in Article 16 of the Law. This is a law that the public thinks needs to be guided specifically in terms that are easy to understand, universal, and avoid ambiguity. Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity provides for the prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management.

Specifically, information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam includes: Propaganda distorting and defaming the people's administration; Psychological warfare, inciting wars of aggression, division and hatred among nations, religions and peoples of different countries; Offending the nation, the national flag, the national emblem, the national anthem, great people, leaders, famous people, national heroes.

Information with content that incites riots, disrupts security, or disrupts public order includes: Calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, divisive, conducting armed activities or using violence against the people's administration; Calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, attracting large gatherings of people to cause trouble, oppose official duty performers, obstruct the activities of agencies and organizations, causing instability in security and order.

Article 16 also details information on cyberspace with content that humiliates, slanders, infringes upon the economic management order, and causes confusion among the people. Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that “The owner of an information system is responsible for implementing technical and managerial measures to prevent, detect, prevent and remove information with infringing content on the system.” information system under its management at the request of the network security protection force”.

When detecting information in cyberspace with infringing content, the specialized network security protection force and competent agencies shall block or request the suspension or cessation of the provision of network information; suspending, temporarily suspending activities of setting up, providing and using telecommunications networks, the internet, manufacturing and using radio transmitters and receivers. At the same time, request the deletion, access or deletion of illegal or untrue information; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name. Enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet, value-added services in cyberspace and information system owners are responsible for closely coordinating with competent authorities to handle violations. .

What are the corporate responsibilities?

Regarding regulations on information security in cyberspace, the Law requires domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to be responsible for: authenticate information when users register for digital accounts; secure information and user accounts; provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.

Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data on personal information data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam. Within 24 hours from the time of request of the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security or a competent agency of the Ministry of Information and Communications, enterprises must prevent the sharing of information. information, delete information with infringing content.

Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity includes provisions on ensuring information security in cyberspace. Accordingly, websites, portals or specialized pages on social networks of agencies, organizations and individuals are not allowed to provide, post or transmit information with the content: Anti-propaganda The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Inciting riots, disrupting security or disrupting public order; Humiliation, slander; Violation of economic management order; Untruthful content causes confusion among the people, causingy damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties to the operation of state agencies or official duty enforcers"	
"On January 1, 2019, the Law on Cybersecurity officially took effect. This is an important legal basis, contributing to ensuring national security and maintaining social order and safety in cyberspace. It is necessary to have a system of legal documents regulating acts in cyberspace because:

Theoretically, Cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. From that, it can be seen that cybersecurity is a part of national security, making an important contribution to ensuring national interests in the digital age.

– In practical terms, cyberspace is like a second “society” that exists in parallel with the society we live in, the special thing is that this “society” has no distance in space, time and space. However, the presence of regulations and sanctions for supervision, management and handling here is still very faint. The past time has also shown that there are many people who take advantage of cyberspace for propaganda activities, inciting gatherings, disrupting security and order for the purpose of opposing the people's administration.

From the above reasons, on June 12, 2018, the National Assembly approved the Draft Law on Cybersecurity with 86.86% of the votes in favor, the Law on Regulations of Behavior in Cyberspace, of which 06 groups were proposed. prohibited behavior. However, right after the National Assembly passed the Draft Law on Cybersecurity, many domestic and foreign opponents propagated and provoked people to oppose this bill, arguing that the Cybersecurity Law was unconstitutional. , ""invasion of privacy"", ""infringement of citizens' freedom of expression"", said that the content of the Cybersecurity Law is ambiguous, no country in the world has this law.

In general, the above misrepresentations ""hit"" the psychology of users' desire to ""protect privacy"" in cyberspace, thereby giving false perceptions about the Cybersecurity Law, implicitly ignoring through the benefits from the enactment of the Cybersecurity Law. It should be understood that the Law on Cybersecurity is not a ""tool"" for the State to strengthen its control over the people, suffocating freedom of information and freedom of expression. On the contrary, the Cybersecurity Law contributes to ensuring a healthy cyberspace environment, more specifically, the Cybersecurity Law ""hits"" those elements that cause insecurity and safety in the network environment. Therefore, it is not a coincidence that after the National Assembly passed the Draft Law on Cybersecurity, reactionaries and opponents at home and abroad actively distort and incite ""movements"" to protest against the arguments that are not valid. power ""for the country"", ""for the people"", but the real goal of the subjects is to prevent the building of a strong enough legal corridor in cyberspace, a real ""barrier"" for activities. activities against the Party, State and People.

Nearly a month since the Law on Cybersecurity took effect, in addition to distorting and inciting articles by domestic and foreign opposers, there have been a number of comments on social networks with sentences in the form of: like ""This comment has been hidden because of the Cybersecurity law, this account holder will be handled according to the law"". It is worth mentioning that the above comments are written in an italic/bold/light font that is quite different from the website's default.

A

Besides, there are joking comments about acts regulated by the Cybersecurity Law. The appearance of the above two content has been responded by a large number of social network users. This seemingly harmless joke has huge consequences, it causes misunderstandings for people, especially young people, about violations of the Cybersecurity Law, saying that the Cybersecurity Law is ""tools"" for the Government to monitor and collect user information, use the pretext of ""cybersecurity"" to regulate even the smallest behavior on social networks, and tighten freedom of expression.

The fact that we are living in a civilized society, the behavior is regulated by law and human morality. Therefore, the Law on Cybersecurity is just a concretization of regulations in daily life, applied to the cyberspace environment. There is no reason for acts in “real space” to be dealt with by applicable law (e.g. slander, insult to dignity or honor of others or propagate or incite illegal protests. ) can be done openly, legally in “virtual space”. As a citizen who has been abiding by the laws of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, we can rest assured that the Law on Cybersecurity is the ""shield"" showing the State's role in security. protect Internet users and, more broadly, the national and national interests in cyberspace against threats that have been and are present every day, every hour."	
"In recent days, before, during and after the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity and the announcement of the President's Order on this Law, domestic and foreign public opinion was very concerned. However, hiding under the guise of ""free speech"", taking advantage of the Party's policy of ""Appreciating the role of scientific research agencies in consulting, criticizing, and assessing the society in policy making. , the Party's guidelines, the State's policies and laws, and economic, cultural and social development projects""[1], opportunists and hostile forces at home and abroad. there are tricks to distort the Cybersecurity Law for the purpose of causing information chaos, creating mistrust and bad public opinion in society; thereby, distorting the correct guidelines and policies of the Party and State on promulgating laws. Therefore, it is very urgent to identify and fight against the distortion of the current Cybersecurity Law.

 

1. Identify allegations that distort the current Cybersecurity Law

 

Firstly, opportunists and hostile forces at home and abroad think that our promulgation of the Cybersecurity Law is a temporary measure of our Party and State to deal with dissenters. political opinion. It is not difficult to recognize those false and out of place claims of foreign news agencies, press and domestic political opportunists ""like poisonous mushrooms after the rain"" of BBC, RFA, VOA, RFI stations. ... Typically VOA Vietnamese with a series of articles full of distortions such as: ""A movement to disobey the Cybersecurity Law"" ... and on the internet, social networks, there is some information that the Law on Cybersecurity Law ""Invasion of privacy""; “infringement on freedom of speech and civil rights”; “robbing people of the right to use the internet” and restricting international relations, restraining the development of Vietnam? Are these things true?

 

The truth is not so! It must be affirmed that the development and implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is a major undertaking and policy of our Party and State in the new situation. Right in the Document of the 12th National Congress, our Party advocates: ""Actively struggle to defeat all plots and counter-actions of hostile forces; preventing and opposing false information and claims, repelling crimes and social evils; ready to respond to traditional and non-traditional security threats; ensuring security, information safety and network security”[2], especially in the context that “the international community has to deal more and more drastically with traditional and non-traditional security challenges, especially especially cyber security and new forms of warfare”[3]; Meanwhile, “Security, social order and safety in some areas are still complicated. Protecting state secrets is still weak. The work of ensuring safety, information security and network security is still inadequate”[4]. Therefore, the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity to further institutionalize the 2013 Constitution and the Resolution of the 12th Party Congress to perfect the legal system on cybersecurity with all for the sake of The goal is to protect the legitimate rights and interests of all citizens, for the stable development of Vietnam and in accordance with international law. Therefore, the above false claim is not only theoretically ambiguous, but also reactionary in practice.

 

Second, they think that the contents of the Cybersecurity Law are very vague and that no country has this law. According to the Vietnam Military Encyclopedia: “Security is a state of stability and safety, with no signs of threatening the existence and normal development of individuals, organizations, each field or of the world. the whole society… Maintaining comprehensive security is a condition for comprehensive development”[5]. Article 2, Clause 1 of the Law on Cybersecurity affirms: “Cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, rights and interests lawful organizations and individuals"". Thus, in terms of terminology - network security - in terms of its content, it has shown the necessity to issue and implement this law.

 

Their claim that “no country has this law”! This is yet another fabrication based on conceptual swapping. To date, 138 countries have had Cybersecurity laws including topical laws and regulatory provisions scattered among other laws, and many of those laws are much stricter than those of Vietnam. On December 7, 2015, parliamentarians and member states of the European Union (EU) reached an agreement on the first Cybersecurity Law applicable to the whole bloc: “According to the above law, service providers Online services such as: Google and Amazon will have to report any serious violations to national authorities or they will be fined. The new law, titled ""Information and Cybersecurity Guidelines,"" sets out strict security and reporting requirements for companies operating in key sectors, such as transportation, energy, and logistics. quality, health and finance. Companies operating on the Internet such as: Google, Amazon, eBay and Cisco will have to report serious violations to national authorities or face penalties.sanctions from these agencies”.

 

In Germany, the Ministry of Justice attaches great importance to cyber security. They give clear instructions to Facebook, if it is not well managed so that people can incite violence, curse online, and misrepresent it, they will be severely punished from Facebook managers to those who speak out. The Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz (NetzDG) ​​Act was passed in the middle of last year but officially took effect on January 1, 2018 after a 2-month extension for social network service providers to develop speech prevention tools. inciting hatred [7].

 

Or in Korea, using social networks to launch insults at a certain ""idol"", you will soon receive a lawsuit from the famous character's management company. Thus, the argument that ""the contents of the Cybersecurity Law are very vague and no country has this law"" is a fabrication, completely contrary to what is in fact.

 

Third, they believe that foreign network companies will not provide user information at the request of the Vietnamese Government - playing ""own rules"". This is also a fabrication because every year, Facebook has a database report for the governments of the countries that are their markets. A total of 103 countries and territories, including Vietnam[8]. And after the Law on Cybersecurity was officially passed by the National Assembly, the Facebook representative in Vietnam said that Facebook's activities were not affected in Vietnam. Moreover, Facebook is completing legal procedures to prepare to establish a representative office in Vietnam; help Facebook operate better, as well as coordinate better with the Vietnamese Government in the future. And so far, Google, Facebook and some other carriers still operate normally in Vietnam as well as not intends to withdraw from a potential market like Vietnam. Thus, the above argument is completely baseless.

 

2. Raise vigilance, smash reactionary thoughts, provoke and cause trouble

 

First of all, we need to continue explaining, propagating and clarifying the contents of the Cybersecurity Law so that all classes of people can understand and grasp it, and each citizen should raise their vigilance against insidious conspiracies and tricks. poison of hostile forces. Resolutely smash some extremists' claims to incite and cause trouble, take advantage of democracy to oppose good guidelines and policies of our Party and State, including the Law on Cybersecurity. . At the same time, raise awareness and actively implement a number of specific contents and tasks as follows:

 

Firstly, among those who have little understanding of Vietnamese law and international public law, especially the Free Trade Agreements (AFTA) that Vietnam has signed with countries within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO). World Trade Organization (WTO) or the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). However, so far, the world has never had a concept that considers cyberspace as a commodity, but only units of information transmitted and received in cyberspace are goods measured in Bytes, Megabytes, Gigabytes. , Tetabyte.v.v. The Vietnam Cybersecurity Law does not have any provisions on taxing import and export of information units, but only regulations on copyright protection for information content. And this regulation is consistent with the provisions of WTO, CPTPP on intellectual property.

 

Second, are those who are using cyberspace, even though they have not committed acts of infringement on network security, or have no acts of infringing upon national security and social order and safety, but are still afraid of being exposed. personal information, worried that carriers will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. To answer these concerns, they did not look to the official document of the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly, but instead received false information, distorted information, misrepresentation, even misinformation. even fabrications emanating from the media apparatus of forces hostile to Vietnam. Since then, they have had inappropriate reactions.

 

Third, the forces hostile to Vietnam have fiercely opposed the passage of the Cybersecurity Law and are now fiercely opposed to bringing the Law on Cybersecurity to life. Because with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, from now on, hostile forces that oppose the State of Vietnam and go against the interests of the Vietnamese people are no longer allowed to act on their own in cyberspace. and the so-called ""freedom on the internet"" to spread information that is against the State of Vietnam, harmful to Vietnam's national security and social order and safety. That is the real cause of the frenzied actions against Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law.

 

This frenzy has been evident since the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly of Vietnam began to discuss and plan to pass the Law on Cybersecurity. The conspiracy of these forces is to take advantage of people's ignorance of the law to deceive and rely on anti-Vietnamese forces abroad tofabricating and distorting the Law on Cybersecurity. Their ultimate purpose is to ""abolish Vietnam's legal weapons"" so that they can blatantly infringe upon Vietnam's sovereignty, independence, national security and social order in cyberspace, and grossly interfere. daring to enter Vietnam's internal affairs...

 

In this anti-war campaign, the hostile forces not only through their henchmen in the country incited people to gather illegally and destroy the State's property, but also provided spiritual support to the people who were living in the country. That serious violation of the law with content that is false, distorted, fabricated, slanderous, etc. In fact, many misrepresented and fabricated news and articles about Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law are published. published with a dense frequency of dozens of articles a day on BBC Vietnamese, VOA Vietnamese, Vietnamese RFA, etc., as well as the websites of the Viet Tan terrorist organization, of the so-called National Government provisional Vietnamese delegation in the US led by Dao Minh Quan. It is a fact that following the Vietnamese government's declaration that Viet Tan and the Provisional National Government of Vietnam are two terrorist organizations, a number of websites of reactionary groups have been removed by the network owner. . Most recently, there is no need for Vietnamese law enforcement agencies to intervene, but only patriotic Vietnamese facebookers to report to the Facebook network operator about the act of spreading information inciting violence posted on websites. Facebook ""Viet Tan"" and ""Patriot Diary"", the owner of the social network Facebook has temporarily deleted these two pages...

 

Fourthly, in addition to those who oppose Vietnam politically and harm Vietnam's national security, those who commit fraudulent acts to appropriate property, launder money, traffic in people, trade drugs, trading in banned goods... and other illegal acts on the internet can no longer self-manage, causing damage to consumers.

 

Subjects who are unreasonably concerned about the Cybersecurity Law can use persuasion, education and explanation measures to make them understand properly. As for those who fiercely oppose the Law on Cybersecurity, it can be seen as acts against the affirmation of Vietnam's rights, independence, national security and social order in cyberspace. Those are acts of treason. With the Law on Cybersecurity being passed and taking effect after half a year, Vietnam will surely have a standard legal corridor to protect its sovereignty, independence, national security and social order and safety. in cyberspace."	
"In the Law on Cybersecurity (ANM) just passed by the XIV National Assembly, I am very pleased with the ban on ""Abusing or abusing ANM protection activities to infringe upon sovereignty, interests, national security and order."" self, social safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals or for self-seeking purposes""; Because in the past time, criminal activities in cyberspace have been very complicated, such as high-tech crimes, online gambling, etc. In which, law enforcement agencies are an important stop in maintaining order. social safety, but recently appeared a number of high-ranking officers of the Ministry of Public Security to protect the online gambling line with thousands of billion dong, which has lost people's confidence in the law enforcement agency. . Therefore, individuals who abuse their positions and powers in law enforcement and cyberspace for their own gain, according to the provisions of the ANM Law, need to be severely dealt with. From there, it will create trust for people, affirm the fairness of the law as well as the necessity of the ANM Law in this 4.0 era.

Previously, we had a number of laws with regulations on ANM but not strictly. The introduction of the ANM Law helps the State clearly regulate the use of cyberspace, protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. However, in order for the Law on ANM to come into life, it is necessary to promote propaganda work among the people. In which, it is necessary to promote the propaganda role of local organizations. We must help people understand the ANM Law well, to get consensus as well as not to be taken advantage of by the bad guys, inciting opposition to the ANM Law. Currently, the Ward Veterans Association has implemented the basic contents of the ANM Law so that its members understand the meaning and importance of the ANM Law. Each officer and member should be an active propagandist, contributing to raising people's understanding of the Law on Security"	
"In the context of integration, the target audience of social media users are mainly young people and teenagers - who have more and more opportunities to participate in the extremely large world of information and connection, and at the same time can access many people. different ideologies and values. However, at present, hostile forces often take advantage of the development of communication technology to spread reactionary news, creating false public opinion about the Party's guidelines and lines. This significantly affects the thought, consciousness and information received by this object.

The virtual world today poses many challenges to Human Rights, especially the right to access information truthfully. This right is often violated from simple things, such as buying and selling goods (fake goods, poor quality online) to issues related to national security, social order, and privacy of individuals. core...

Illustration.

According to the state management agency, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity comes from the urgent requirements of cyberspace practice in Vietnam. Vietnam is facing the reality that it has to deal with tens of thousands of large-scale and high-intensity cyber attacks each year, directly threatening national security, social order and safety, and violating personal rights. cause heavy economic losses. Cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and illegal gatherings to disrupt security and order. inciting riots, terrorism, overthrowing the people's administration, infringing upon national sovereignty, interests and security. Posting of information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale; The use of cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety is increasing and complicated, such as gambling, fraud, stealing bank accounts, money laundering, prostitution, drugs...

The Law on Cybersecurity was developed with the participation of comments from ministries, functional agencies and state management agencies; the participation of domestic enterprises, with more than 30 large telecommunications and information technology enterprises such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV; many foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facabook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US-ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association; foreign representative agencies such as the US, Canada, Australia, Japan and people's opinions...

The promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is a legal basis for competent authorities to apply measures to prevent, fight, handle, investigate and adjudicate violations of the law and other crimes. offense. On the other hand, the Law also helps to prevent, warn and deter illegal acts in cyberspace, and at the same time protect human rights when participating in cyberspace activities.

For the purpose of protecting human rights, the Law on Cybersecurity directly protects 05 rights: the right to life, the right to freedom and personal security; the right to equality before the law and to be protected by the law; The right not to interfere with your privacy, family, residence or correspondence; The right not to be infringed upon personal honor or reputation; Citizens' right to freedom of thought, belief and religion; Citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression.

Accordingly, the Law on Cybersecurity creates a legal basis for citizens to actively protect their interests in cyberspace. All illegal acts in cyberspace that infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of citizens will be handled in accordance with the law.

Individuals are protected when participating in cyberspace activities against malicious information that infringes upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts. others affect their lawful rights and interests; to participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training.

Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled. If the network security force is to abuse or disclose personal information of users, it will be handled in accordance with the law.

Taking advantage of the complicated developments of the Covid-19 epidemic, many objects have taken advantage of the cyberspace to spread fake news and false information about the disease. The Ministry of Public Security has directed police units and localities to fight and handle according to law provisions. Up to now, the authorities have summoned the subjects, forced the removal of false information, committed not to repeat the offense. At the same time, based on the legal provisionsto penalize serious cases.

Citizens need to be responsible when using social networks

On May 20, 2021, the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention, Police Department of Dak Lak Province said that it had summoned H'D HMok, 28 years old, in Ea commune to work. Wer, Buon Don district (Dak Lak), to handle the act of posting articles that distort the directives of Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam about the Covid-19 epidemic on the social network Facebook. At the police station, after being explained, H'D HMok realized his wrongdoing and removed the above article; At the same time, write a commitment not to repeat the offense. The Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control is consolidating documents to handle H'D HMok for violations of regulations on responsibility for using social networking services according to Article 101 of Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP of the Government.

Recently, there have been a series of individuals violating the Cybersecurity Law. According to analysts, after being promulgated, the Law on Cybersecurity also faced some objections, saying that the Law prevents and infringes on citizens' freedom of speech, restricts access to social networking sites. society and create a legal basis to control all personal information of users. Practice has proven that the above claims are wrong. Communication, exchange, posting, information sharing, trading, business and commerce activities still take place normally in cyberspace, without being prevented or banned. The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google, and Youtube. Vietnamese people are still free to access the websites of Facebook, Google, Youtube or any other social networking sites at home and abroad.

The Ministry of Public Security has developed implementing documents of the Law on Cybersecurity to concretize regulations and create luggage to ensure the basic rights of citizens and businesses. In order to fully enjoy the rights specified in the Law on Cybersecurity, individuals also need to ensure the fulfillment of statutory obligations such as: Not performing the prohibited acts specified in Article 8 of this Law. about prohibited acts on network security; Timely provide information related to network security protection, cyber security threats, cyber security breaches to competent state management agencies and cybersecurity protection forces; Coordinating with the network security protection force in preventing and handling illegal acts of using cyberspace; Individuals who use these social networks or any other social networks to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law.

The Vietnamese state always identifies people as both the goal and the driving force of the cause of national construction. The State of Vietnam affirms that people are the center of socio-economic policies, promoting and protecting human rights is an important factor for sustainable development, ensuring the victory of industrialization and modernization. modernize the country. All guidelines, lines and policies of Vietnam aim to strive for the goal of ""rich people, strong country, fair, democratic and civilized society"", all for people and for people.

The system of policies and laws of the Party and State of Vietnam for ensuring human rights, basic rights and obligations of citizens in the condition that the Internet and social networks are adequate and convenient. However, when participating in cyberspace, users need to be properly aware of human rights, basic rights and obligations of citizens. It is an obligation to comply with the law; strictly implement rights restrictions, in order to ensure national security, public order, and legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations. This is not only a political and legal responsibility, but also belongs to the ethics, lifestyle of each person and is also the regulation of many countries around the world."	
"The reactionary terrorist organization Viet Tan, along with Reporters Without Borders, have lobbied a number of congressmen in the United States to oppose Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law with reasons they argue such as ""this law restricts freedoms of speech”, “disturbing US businesses”. They also called on congressmen and senators to ask Facebook and Google not to cooperate with Vietnam... Some foreign news stations such as VOA, BBC, RFI... as usual, publish articles according to their voices. ""threats"", ""whole breasts cover your mouth"", exaggerated information. They submitted a letter that was drafted by 17 US congressmen from the Vietnam Caucus Group, which included the following paragraph: “If the Vietnamese government forces your companies to support and censor information, then this is an issue that needs to be addressed. stated through diplomatic channels and at the highest level.”

VIETNAM'S CIRCULAR SECURITY LAW COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL LAW AND PRACTICES

Most of the unbiased opinions on Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law as above come from their own purposes and the unfaithful views of some organizations and individuals who have long sought to distort and oppose the law. Vietnam, including those who always defy reality and truth. In fact, Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law has been carefully researched and built, stemming from practical requirements, not a copy of any country.

The development of the Cybersecurity Law is also interested in implementation by many countries around the world, including the United States. According to the United Nations, up to now, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. In February 2013, then-US President Obama proposed an Executive Order to Improve Key Cybersecurity Infrastructure. In January 2015, Obama signed into law a new Cybersecurity Bill. On May 11, 2017, US President Donald Trump signed a new Executive Order on Cybersecurity.

The National Assembly deputies press the button to vote on the draft Law on Cybersecurity
The National Assembly deputies press the button to vote on the draft Law on Cybersecurity


In fact, there have been a number of provisions in Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law that have been misunderstood and even misrepresented by some, saying that people will no longer be able to use utility services such as Gmail: Gmail. , Facebook, Youtube… But the truth is not like that.

Who evaluates information content as infringing? An individual, department or department of the Ministry of Information and Communications or the Ministry of Public Security? Colonel Nguyen Huu Cau, Director of Nghe An Provincial Public Security, a delegate from the National Assembly of Nghe An emphasized on the National Assembly forum, stating in practice that the information specified in Article 15 has been approved by a competent authority. mechanism, which is solicitation of expertise. Many cases of propaganda against the State or abusing freedom and democracy to infringe upon the interests of the State, organizations and citizens' legitimate interests have strictly followed this regulation. All online documents collected by the investigative agency must be subject to expert examination, so there can be no abuse or arbitrariness.

Regarding the requirement that domestic and foreign enterprises providing online services must store in Vietnam and set up their headquarters or representative office in Vietnam, it is also completely consistent with international practices and laws. . To date, more than 18 member countries of the World Trade Organization (WTO), including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France, have made it mandatory to store data within their national territory.

In fact, Facebook and Google have placed thousands of servers at leading telecommunications enterprises in Vietnam, such as by August 2017, Facebook has about 300 servers with a capacity of about 1,900 Gbps; Google has 1,238 servers with a capacity of about 8,158 Gbps… No company has complained that the requirement to store data is to prevent foreign businesses from investing or doing business in Vietnam. Professor Vladimir Kolotov, Saint Petersburg State University (Russia) commented: “The new Cybersecurity Law passed in Vietnam is very necessary. Similar legislation was also passed in Russia and many countries around the world. This act in no way violates or interferes with freedom of expression.”

HANDLING OF VIOLATIONS - MANY COUNTRIES THAN VIETNAM

In Singapore, on January 4, 2018, the Cybersecurity Bill was submitted to the National Assembly, with a focus on increasing the power of the Singapore Cybersecurity Authority (CSA) in management. Accordingly, when a cyber attack occurs, the CSA will be allowed to conduct an investigation and have the right to request a report about the cyber attack ""within a few hours"" or face a fine of up to 100,000 VND. Singapore dollars or imprisonment for up to 10 years.

In Thailand, the Government has planned to spend more than 128 million Baht (equivalent to 3 million USD) to equip social network tracking technology; efforts to lobby the National Assembly of this country to pass a new Cybersecurity bill, which requires internet service providers to remove and block sensitive content and websites when requested. The country has also asked Facebook to block about 300 accounts that post comments and materials that defame the Royal Family and the government.Intervening in the internal affairs of countries, the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna (Austria) agreed on the following human rights views: Human rights are both universal (universal) or also called It is global and at the same time, specific, i.e. characteristics determined by historical traditions, customs and cultures in regions or in each country. Human rights are expressed through the specificity and uniqueness of the national legal system. This is reflected in the concentration of “restriction of rights” provisions in certain laws. These restrictions are intended to “protect national security; public order; health or morals, or the rights and freedoms of others”.

Enemy forces often distort the concept of human rights to encourage and incite the recklessness and delusion of a part of internet and social network users, especially young people. They claim that human rights are rights without any restrictions; all acts against the regime in a “peaceful” and “nonviolent” manner are legal; The authorities' suppression of crime is a ""violation of human rights""… These tones, combined with the lack of understanding, make some people misunderstand about human rights, lead to law violations, fall into the labor force."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on June 12, 2018, and took effect from January 1, 2019, consisting of 7 chapters and 43 articles. network security, protect people and businesses, create a healthy social environment for development in cyberspace; is an effective tool to prevent and remove false information against the Party and State; prevent, fight, handle and eliminate threats to national security, handle acts of infringing upon network security, spreading slanderous, fabricated information... in order to protect human rights, ensuring citizens' rights in the context of the outbreak of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, so right from the very beginning of the Law on Cybersecurity, it has been fiercely opposed by hostile and reactionary forces. regularly fight and promptly counter misrepresentations, protect the Cybersecurity Law, and contribute to protecting the ideological foundation of the Party.

Identify allegation that distort the Cybersecurity Law and oppose the Party's ideological foundation

The fourth industrial revolution entered a boom phase. The rapid development of many breakthrough technologies such as artificial intelligence, internet of things, cloud computing, big data systems, etc. has turned cyberspace into an indispensable part of the world. life and society, bringing many benefits to people, but also being used by hostile forces to spread false, fabricated, slanderous, reactionary information on social networks, the internet, against destroy the ideological foundation of our Party, threaten national security, social order and safety.

At present, hostile and reactionary forces still regularly advertise and misrepresent that the Cybersecurity Law has banned citizens from using Facebook, Google, zalo, youtube, which is a barrier in business, making it difficult for businesses ... In order to drive public opinion to misunderstand the essence of the Law, they try to slander, incite and deceive people that: Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law violates human rights, ""infringes on freedom of speech"", ""infringes upon"" privacy""; Only Vietnam and China use the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Cybersecurity is a step back... and protest and demand the abolition of the Cybersecurity Law.

Vietnam is in the top 20 countries with the highest population of Internet users in the world, and is also the country in the group that suffers from the most cyberattacks. As of 2019, Vietnam had more than 60 million internet users, accounting for more than 60% of the population, ranking 16th in the world in terms of the number of internet users. hostile forces have thoroughly taken advantage of cyberspace to distort the ideological foundation of our Party in order to cause confusion and fluctuations in ideology and socialist ideals; distorted, even denied Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh's thought. They take advantage of the Internet to propagate and deepen shortcomings in the Party's leadership and State management, as well as the deterioration of political ideology, morality and lifestyle of a part of cadres and party members. to cause ideological fluctuations, to cause distrust and lack of consensus among the people, to incite and divide internally to oppose the Party, State, and our regime... threatening national security, order and safety society (Ho Chi Minh National Academy of Politics, 2018, p.5).

The introduction of the Law on Cybersecurity in Vietnam is likened to a sustainable ""legal steel pile"" to ensure that our country and people are always safe in cyberspace, contributing to protecting the Party's foundation. , that makes the activities of hostile forces, political opportunists with bad intentions, going against the revolutionary path that the Party, State and people of Vietnam have chosen to be stuck because of the loss of life. fertile land is to take advantage of cyberspace in the ambition to destroy our country's revolution as well as to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of all people in cyberspace. Therefore, they frantically oppose, incite and slander the Cybersecurity Law, demanding the abolition of the Cybersecurity Law, which is understandable.

Opposing false views, distorting the Law on Cybersecurity, contributing to protecting the ideological foundation of the Party

As we all know, not only Vietnam uses the Law on Cybersecurity, but 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. The promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity in Vietnam is in line with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and other relevant documents. with the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and in line with the trend of the world, effectively contributing to the implementation of ensuring network security, preventing and fighting activities using the Internet to invade. national security, social order and safety.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not prevent or infringe on citizens' freedom of speech. Because, activities of communicating, exchanging, posting and sharing information still take place normally in cyberspace and are not prevented or banned as long as such activities do not violate the laws of Vietnam. . Citizens can do anything in cyberspace that is not prohibited by Vietnamese law. Law of AnCybersecurity protects the activities of free speech, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. The provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity, ensuring that personal information is strictly protected. The competent authorities are responsible for protecting business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life of individuals and organizations in cyberspace. Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be sanctioned.

The Law on Cybersecurity of Vietnam only requires information to be provided when users commit false accusations and misrepresentations against the Party and State, threatening national security in cyberspace. The specialized force to protect network security according to the provisions of the Law is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing). approved by competent authorities. At the same time, absolutely do not abuse, disclose personal information of users, if violated, they will be handled in accordance with the law.

From that, it shows that the Law on Cybersecurity is necessary and does not infringe on the ""right to freedom of speech"", the ""right to privacy"" of all citizens, to prevent and handle acts of using space. network infringes on the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, contributing to protecting the ideological foundation of our Party. In order to fight against wrong and distorted views about the Law on Cybersecurity at all levels, Party committees, authorities and each cadre and party member must thoroughly grasp the following issues:

Firstly, continue to strengthen the leadership of the Party and the State's management of press and communication activities, and step up the prevention and fight against activities that take advantage of freedom. freedom of speech and press freedom to slander and distort against the Party and State of Vietnam in cyberspace.

Second, actively propagate the Law on Cybersecurity deeply and widely among the people, ministries and party members with appropriate content and form. Paying attention to measures of persuasion, education, and explanation so that everyone can properly understand the Law on Cybersecurity, consciously protect the Party's ideological foundation, and protect the scientific nature of the Cybersecurity Law. , and strictly abide by and do not violate the provisions of the Law when participating in activities in cyberspace.

Thirdly, the forces dedicated to protecting network security, the staff of the press and media agencies, the force of reporters, political theory lecturers and all cadres and party members, must has the responsibility to regularly monitor cyberspace in order to promptly detect false information and views, distort the ideological foundation of the Party and State by hostile forces, and request removal, and fight against them. timely rebuttal.

Fourth, organize the struggle to expose wrong views, distort and deny Marxism-Leninism and Ho Chi Minh's thought in cyberspace, making it easier for all classes of people, cadres and parties to members recognize the deep-rooted goals of false, hostile views. At the same time, continue to promote the study and spread of Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh's thought, the Party's viewpoints and guidelines, and the State's laws in cyberspace (Politics of the Communist Party of Vietnam). Vietnamese products, 2018).

Fifth, strengthen the inspection, examination and handling of violations of the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, thereby, proactively detecting violations and deviant trends of individuals and organizations. to take preventive measures. Those who intentionally sabotage and oppose need to be handled promptly and strictly according to the provisions of law.

In short, the Law on Cybersecurity was born, meeting well the requirements of ensuring national security, social order and safety, being a ""legal steel barricade"" protecting the ideological foundation of the Party, so it is often criticized by hostile forces slander, distort and demand the abolition of the Law. Therefore, all levels of Party committees, authorities, each cadre, party member and people need to raise their vigilance, constantly improve their understanding and knowledge of the Cybersecurity Law, strictly abide by the Law, participate in the healthy development of economic and social activities in cyberspace, contributing to firmly protecting the ideological foundation of our Party."	
"In that context, the fact that some domestic and foreign opinions oppose Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law is an act of lack of goodwill and irresponsibility to society and people. Because of their narrow (even dark) will, they have been deliberately hindering the safe and healthy development of Vietnam.

On April 1, 2015, in the face of increasingly damaging cyberattacks for the United States, then-US President B.Obama issued a declaration of a national emergency with cyber-attacking activities. valid until April 1, 2018. After three years, when cyberattacks continue to be a serious threat to national security, foreign policy and the US economy (as of February 2018, the representative of the US Government published a statistical losses due to cyberattacks in the US in 2016 amounted to about 57-109 billion USD), on March 27, 2018, President D. Trump announced the extension of the national emergency with cyberattack activities. until April 1, 2018. And recently, an article on news.zing.vn said, according to The Verge, on July 17, 2018, the US Congress made a conclusion that forced Facebook to be more aggressive, even deleting illegal pages. the law; The US Congress also pointed out that some pages that attract a lot of views specialize in spreading fake information, unverified conspiracy theories such as Infowars, Milkshakes, etc. that can incite violence; US lawmakers also pressured Facebook to remove many other pages, most of which are related to political views in the US...

In Asia, on July 20, 2018, a representative of the Singapore Government said that the data system of SingHealth - the largest health insurance organization in the country, was attacked by hackers. Specifically, from May 2015 to July 2018, hackers accessed and stole personal data belonging to 1.5 million SingHealth users, including addresses, patient identification numbers who visited clinics. , hospital; In particular, the prescription information of 160,000 patients was also stolen. It is worth mentioning that Singapore is always rated as one of the world's leading countries in terms of cybersecurity protection. According to the Singapore Government representative, this is a deliberate cyberattack, affecting more than 25% of Singapore's population, directed at a specific target, not the work of ordinary hackers or criminal gangs. perfectly planned.

In another aspect, on July 25, 2018, Facebook announced that it had removed 196 pages and 87 individual accounts based on this social network's platform in Brazil. These are pages and accounts used by a right-wing political group to spread fake news ahead of the Brazilian presidential election held in October 2018. Notably, the locked pages belong to a network that uses fake Facebook accounts, the owners of these pages hide the nature and origin of the posted content to intentionally create division, spread information. false news. Facebook's resolute action is the result of June 2018, Facebook and Google signed an agreement with the Supreme Electoral Court in Brazil to combat the spread and dissemination of fake news...

With Vietnam in the trend of the fourth industrial revolution, the rapid development and change of science and technology, with the number of users as well as applications in life increasing sharply..., security issues Networking is becoming more and more important. Besides development opportunities, this field also has many potential and unpredictable consequences. Notably, cybercriminals and cyber attacks are increasing in both scale and sophistication and complexity into the nation's important information infrastructure. According to statistics from the Vietnam Computer Incident Response Center (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, Vietnam's internet was threatened by more than 10,000 cyberattacks, causing 12.3 losses. trillion. According to VNCERT, from the beginning of 2018 to May 2018, there were 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks entering Vietnam. Recently, VNCERT said that by the end of July 2018, this center had recorded many targeted attacks by hackers into the information systems of some banks and important national infrastructure in Vietnam. . To conduct attacks, hackers perform fraudulent tricks, combine high-tech measures to bypass information security protection systems to gain control of users' computers, through which attacks internal computer systems that contain important information. On July 26, 2018, BKAV announced that its virus monitoring system detected a type of spying malware called BrowserSpy. This is a very dangerous computer virus because it has the ability to spy on users, collect searches, read emails and web browsing history, steal personal information, Gmail, Facebook passwords, etc. Bank accounts… According to BKAV, so far more than 560,000 computers in Vietnam have been tracked by BrowserSpy malware, and the number is continuing to increase…

The above news events are also enough to clearly show that cyberattacks have become a type of crime causing national insecurity, economic losses and personal insecurity, becoming a global concern... Security e-government network?is just a risk or risk, but becoming a threat across borders, has been and is a problem that governments and individuals in countries have to face. And the fact also shows that today every field of social activity can always be the object of cyber attack. Cyberattacks not only target the economy, defense, technology, science, etc., but also issues of political opinion, social regime, culture, education, infrastructure, social security. , aviation management, traffic, ... are also the subject of cyber attacks. This requires that in order to protect national security, governments of countries must develop and issue legal documents not only to combat cyber attacks, but also to organize, manage, operate and handle activities. related to the internet, ensuring the safety and health of the society, and protecting citizens. That is the basis for explaining why the legal document on cyber security is a system related to all fields of social and human activities when using the internet, as Article 1 of the Law on Cybersecurity of Vietnam (effective in this regard). (effective from January 1, 2019) defines the scope of regulation: “This Law stipulates activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals”; and the concept of cyber security is specifically explained in Article 2: ""is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of of organizations and individuals”. In fact, Vietnam's adoption of the Law on Cybersecurity is considered by a large number of experts and the Internet user community as a necessary move to help protect Vietnam's sovereignty in cyberspace as well as ensure the safety of Internet users. users before the potential risks in today's network environment...

However, knowing that when the Law on Cybersecurity takes effect, their impure and evil activities are at risk of facing the law more directly, so hostile forces and some organizations , individuals with a lack of goodwill have loudly protested despite the interests in the field of social and human activities mentioned by the Law on Cybersecurity. These individuals and organizations only focus on one law related to their activities to conduct a campaign of denial, slander and distortion. (Unfortunately, some governments and international organizations also joined them, deliberately exerting pressure.) For example, commenting on RFI on June 12, 2018, a person known as a ""person, intellectual"" expressed his ""most concern"" that the Law on Cybersecurity ""swapped the concept... to silence his mouth."" the people… do not benefit the country, but lead astray…”. That said, it proves that this ""person"" does not care about other important contents of the Cybersecurity Law, ignoring the issue that when the Law takes effect, the economy, culture, etc. of the country are protected. how to defend. At the same time, he himself changed the concept, used the trick to turn the part into the whole, so that from a law in the Law on Cybersecurity, it did not meet his will but denied the entire legal document. According to this person's one-sided approach, Vietnam does not need to protect network security, bad guys are free to attack the country's infrastructure system, attack banks to steal money, mess up the public relations. operating e-government, inciting violence, selling counterfeit goods, promoting terrorism, causing aviation accidents. All individuals using the Internet in Vietnam must therefore accept that they are always at risk of being stolen personal information, bank accounts, email, Facebook... are publicly or anonymously, impersonating to spread fake news, spread false statements, oppose the country, incite opposition, spread countercultural products to poison the young generation, attack the cultural foundation nationalization, etc. can self-edit on the internet without being punished. Regrettably, these kinds of statements have misled some people's thoughts, to join their voices in protest and criticism. Although many people have never studied carefully and carefully about the Cybersecurity Law before, to realize that this law is one of the legal tools that directly protects the society they live in, and protects themselves and others. Dear.

A civilized society is a society in which all citizens have a spirit and sense of respect for the law. In order for the country to stabilize and develop, along with the efforts of the government, all citizens, professions and organizations, the sense of law observance must be one of the factors that play a dominant role, ensuring basic principles that determine the safe and healthy development of society. If you deliberately go against or destroy those principles, it is irresponsible to society and people. At the same time, it must be affirmed that Vietnam is a sovereign country, no government, no organization or individual can give themselves the right to interfere with that immutable sovereignty. Therefore, those who are trying to find all ways to slander, fabricate or distort the call for ""disobeying the Cybersecurity Law"" should stop, do not make themselves subject to legal action."	
"Just owning an electronic device (smartphone, laptop) with an internet connection, individuals have the right to freely communicate their information and opinions to others anywhere, anytime. It is this convenience and utility that allows individuals to freely chat, transmit… all their problems, creative ideas, and thoughts on social networks (MXH).

Lawyer Cao Son Ha from the Provincial Bar Association said that individuals' freedom of expression in cyberspace under the 2018 Cybersecurity Law is broader than an individual's freedom of expression in the press (according to the Law on Press and Publication). 2016). Because, expressing personal opinions in the media (print press, picture press, electronic newspaper - this type must be licensed and registered to operate under a very strict regulation) is always approved by these agencies. to verify and verify the legitimacy, constitutionality, objective truth, by a fairly professional, highly qualified and professional department, then allow publication and take responsibility before the law for publishing jobs.

Meanwhile, to own one or more personal accounts in cyberspace, the registration procedure is very simple. Individuals can post and share information even without verification. Therefore, the accuracy of personal information in cyberspace is not high.

For example, the Facebook account Lan Nguyen Van posted an article on the morning of 6-8 causing a stir about a person wearing clothes related to the field of burial and cremation carrying jars of lost ashes and delivering them in different areas. blockade epidemic prevention in Ho Chi Minh City. When the official press entered the verification, the matter was not quite as the article. There is practically no alley 42 Au Co as this Facebook post mentions. The urns mentioned in the article were delivered in many districts such as: Tan Binh, Tan Phu, 11, 6, not just P.Phu Trung, Tan Phu district as this account posted. The owner of this Facebook account also admitted to the press that he only saw and wrote according to his emotions…

* Do not humiliate or slander others

The use of information by individuals in cyberspace to humiliate or slander others is strictly prohibited by law. Those who commit violations shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law.

Therefore, in Clause 3, Article 16 of the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, it is very clear that information on cyberspace with humiliating and slanderous content includes: seriously insulting honor, reputation, the dignity of others. Fabricated or untrue information infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals.

According to lawyer Cao Son Ha, freedom of speech does not mean that you like to express your views and opinions arbitrarily. Freedom of speech must be within the framework of the Constitution and laws. These limits are reflected in prohibited acts, administrative and criminal sanctions in the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, the 2018 Law on Cyber ​​Information Security, the 2015 Penal Code, the Civil Code 2015…

Specifically, the act of offending the dignity and reputation of others on Facebook is a violation of Point a, Clause 1, Article 101 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 of the Government providing for sanctions. administrative violations in the field of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions (effective from April 15, 2020). This behavior is subject to a fine of 10-20 million dong and forced to remove infringing information.

Regarding criminal liability, acts of infringing upon the dignity and reputation of others may be handled according to Article 155 (crime of humiliating others) and Article 156 (crime of slander) of the 2015 Penal Code if the person give information from full 16 years old or older, have the capacity to take criminal responsibility. The use of social networks that seriously offend the dignity and honor or cause damage to the legitimate rights and interests of others is considered by the 2015 Penal Code as an aggravating circumstance of criminal responsibility for the crime of humiliating people. other and may be imprisoned from 3 months to 2 years"	
"Along with that, the authorities have also developed and published documents of a warning nature, which is recently the Code of Conduct on social networks issued by the Ministry of Information and Communications to help all public people ensure the right to freedom of speech, at the same time, show a sense of responsibility, preserve fine customs and traditions, and contribute to the construction and defense of the Fatherland.

Freedom of speech is one of the basic human rights. In Vietnam, Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution affirms that citizens have the right to freedom of expression and emphasizes that ""The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law"". That corresponds to the requirements set out in international documents that Vietnam has signed.

For example: Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (the Declaration) affirms that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion, freedom to express opinions, to seek, receive and impart information and opinions by any means. media regardless of national borders; At the same time, Article 29 of the Declaration affirms that in exercising this right, everyone must comply with such limitations as are established by law in order to ensure recognition and respect for the rights of others, and to meet justifiable ethical requirements. , public order, the general welfare in a democratic society.

Similarly, paragraph 2 of Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights affirms that “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression”, while paragraph 3 of Article 19 emphasizes that the exercise of this right is accompanied by the obligation, special responsibility, subject to certain limitations as prescribed by law in order to respect the rights and reputation of others, protect national security or public order, health, morality...

In the context of the internet - emerging as a rapidly growing but very complex social network, in order for people's right to freedom of speech to be strictly and comprehensively enforced, laws and sub-law documents on freedom of speech has been increasingly improved to both ensure the rights of citizens and help them to be exercised on the basis of the law.

Specifically: Law on Press, Law on Access to Information, Law on Cybersecurity, Penal Code (with Article 117 ""Crime of making, storing, distributing or propagating information, documents and items aimed at the State against the State, The Socialist Republic of Vietnam”, Article 155 “Criminal humiliation of others”, Article 156 “Slander”, Article 167 “Crime of infringing upon the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press and access to information…”, Article 331 ""Crime of abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals""...), Law on Telecommunications (Article 12 ""Prohibited acts in telecommunications activities"" Communication"" has Clause 4 which is ""Distributing information that distorts, slanders, offends the reputation of organizations, honor and dignity of individuals""), Civil Code (Article 32 on ""Individuals' rights to image"", Article 34 on ""The right to protection of honor, dignity and prestige""...); Decree 72/2013/ND-CP on “Management, provision and use of Internet services and online information”, Decree 15/2020/ND-CP “Regulations on sanctioning of administrative violations in the field of postal, telecommunications, radio frequency, information technology and electronic transactions”… In response, in 2016, the Vietnam Journalists Association issued “10 articles of the Code of Professional Ethics for Journalists.” Vietnam"", until 2018, the Journalists Association continued to issue ""Rules for using social networks by Vietnamese journalists"".

However, the reality also shows that, when the internet and social networks develop at a rapid pace, not only Vietnam but also other countries around the world have to face challenges from the complexity and difficulty of the internet. Control over information is derived from the view that freedom of expression on social networks is absolute, without limits. Judging from the relationship of nature - phenomenon, freedom - necessity, objective - subjectivity, in many cases, if challenges are not overcome, if challenges cannot be regulated, everyone can be offended. attack on social networks without having a chance to reclaim honor and justice. Even at the national level, there is a risk of falling into an information chaos - a factor that can cause disturbances in the human mind and social disorders.

Therefore, not only Vietnam, but also countries around the world have taken resolute measures on the law, both recommending citizens to behave civilly on social networks, so that freedom of speech can operate actively and meet the needs of the people. meet the requirements of healthy development of society and people. Based on the choice of development direction, cultural traditions, specific conditions and contexts, etc., each country has built its own system of legal criteria for freedom of speech for its country.

As in Singapore, with the Law on Protection from Online Manipulation and Deception, fake news is considered to be against the interests and stability of the community, compromises public safety and security, and harms the public. harming health, inciting hatred among social groups, reducing trust in the functions and duties of state agencies, damaging relations between Singapore and other countries; If found to be spreading fake news on social media, when the authorities ask for correction and do not comply, they can be fined up to S$20,000 or jailed for 12 months (or both). Singapore also has a regulation on speakingdefamation, defamation, slander in daily life and on social media will result in a fine of up to S$100,000 or imprisonment for up to 3 years (or both); slander, defamation is punishable by a fine of up to S$20,000 or imprisonment for 12 months (or both).

In the United States, limits on freedom of speech are reflected in court precedents, which give the government the power to prevent and punish speech that is obscene, defamatory, obscene, offensive, or aggressive. The US Supreme Court has affirmed that freedom of speech does not mean the right to fabricate slander and defamation of individuals. In France, Germany, etc., the laws related to freedom of speech all set strict limits and sanctions for the abuse of freedom of speech that affects the legitimate rights and interests of others. and at the same time fight against slander, libel, racism, religion, incitement to violence, hatred, invasion of personal privacy... Expression of views on the internet is also governed by press law.

There are also many other punitive rules and regulations such as the Code of Practice for online social media platform providers in the UK; Code of Conduct on Social Media and Online Commenting in Australia... Not only each individual country, the European Union (EU) has also issued a Code of Conduct on the internet, Facebook, Twitter, Google has also assisted in establishing a Code of Conduct with a commitment to ensuring prompt access to, marking, and removal of hate speech and illegal content on their platforms. By 2020, the social network TikTok has also joined this Code of Conduct.

In Vietnam, although there are specific legal provisions, the authorities have repeatedly recommended, and many statements and violations are strictly handled, but recently the status of violations in statements Comments, news, mentions and discussions about organizations or other people on some social networks are on the increase, even quite complicated.

While many Vietnamese people, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, education, region, etc., use social networks as a means of connecting with relatives and friends with similar interests to share and confide. , exchange, learn, help cultivate knowledge, spread and multiply the values ​​of truth - goodness - beauty, etc., there are still many individuals who behave arbitrarily, without culture, even negatively on the internet. social networks, causing public opinion to be disgruntled and harshly voiced. It seems that these citizens mistakenly believe that social media is a place where freedom of speech has no limits, is not within the scope of national law, is not related to community cultural norms, so they behave regardless of the law, cultural norms? Then when the authorities warned and handled, they loudly said that the right to freedom of speech was violated, creating an excuse for the bad guys to take advantage of slander Vietnam!

In essence, when giving opinions, commenting, sharing content, etc. on a social network, an organization or individual has committed an act related to freedom of expression. Opinions, comments, shares, etc., whether positive or negative, cultural or counter-cultural, directly affect viewers and listeners. Thus, the above-mentioned acts are no longer within the limits of individuals, but are community activities, so they must comply with the limits permitted by law. Overcoming that limit, organizations and individuals will push themselves to the point of breaking the law, so they should be advised to self-regulate.

Therefore, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued the Code of Conduct on social networks (the Code) with the following criteria: “respect, comply with the law; healthy; information security; responsibility” is necessary and appropriate. It should also be noted that although the criteria do not combine the requirements of reward and punishment, it is only a recommendation, but from the sense of responsibility of citizens as well as to the community, if everyone participating in social networks behaves according to The criteria of the Code will make an important contribution to building a safe and healthy cyber environment in Vietnam."	
"Sir, how does the Law on Cybersecurity affect people's freedom of speech?

+ First, it can be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity has absolutely no effect on people's right to freedom of speech. There is no law that provides regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using new network information like this. Never before has children's rights been so protected on online information. The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information. People are comfortable using the network to do activities that do not violate the law. There is absolutely no provision to impede free speech.

Only individuals who give false, fabricated, or insulting information according to 29 articles of the Penal Code will be handled. It is impossible to threaten to kill people online and be free, but in reality, they will be punished. It is impossible to freely buy and sell weapons, explosives, detailed instructions on how to use them, but in real life, they will be dealt with, but not on the internet… Who offends the nation, sovereignty, religion, or who discriminates against gender on the internet? …will be dealt with.

-Is it mandatory for businesses to disclose personal information to security agencies in violation of personal privacy protection?

+ Do not violate anything. Because there is article 17 of the Law already. Article 17 is very strict to protect the privacy of individuals and families. ""Enterprises when providing telecommunications services, internet and value-added services... are responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts, and keeping user's account information confidential."" Therefore, it is the responsibility of the business to maintain confidentiality. Failure to do so will be handled.

""Provide information to users in charge of network security protection upon written request to serve the investigation of violations of the law on network security"". In the event that the Law provides so, it will be provided. For example, when I see an online exchange of buying and selling explosives to prepare for terrorism, the involved party must definitely provide information for us to handle, otherwise a disaster will occur.

In addition, information will not be arbitrarily provided and must be treated as confidential. If you reveal that secret, you will be held responsible. Right now a lot of our information is being leaked.

- But the sign of violation seems to be very vague, sir?

+ No ambiguity. This issue is referred to in 29 articles of the Criminal Law. If we detect signs of a bomb, we have to arrest it immediately. Information must be requested to verify if the person is true or just fabricated information. And after that, we can handle the law or handle it in another form.

And I believe that when formulating this, the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security and the Law Committee of the National Assembly scrutinized it very carefully.

-In the Law, there is a sentence that is quite vague. For example ""insulting great people"". So how to identify ""great man"", sir?

+ This must be appraised by relevant functional ministries. If the Ministry replies that there is a violation, we will be handled. For example, related to credit fraud, it is necessary to ask the State Bank and financial economic groups to determine whether there is a violation. There are a lot of people losing money and this has to be verified by a cybersecurity agency. We have to step by step investigate, verify and clarify whether it is subjective, objective, age...

Of course, no law is perfect. Someone asked me, ""Does this law prevent acts in cyberspace?"". I replied: ""Criminal Law is enacted, but murder is still there, robbery is still there"". Having a Cybersecurity Law is there to provide scope for what is protected and to know prohibited behavior for us to avoid. Even the agency in charge of cybersecurity must rely on this Law to know what is prohibited and what is allowed.

 

-From now until the decree is formulated, will the editorial board continue to listen to people's opinions, sir?

+ The editorial board always listens, always adjusts, always asks for the right content to be submitted. All decrees are commented by agencies, economic groups, and internet telecommunications groups. I affirm so.

-During the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity, did we work with Google…?

+ The draft Law on Cybersecurity was developed in November 2016 according to the Resolution of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister then issued a decision to establish a Drafting Committee. Members include many ministries and branches, not only the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Defense, etc. During the construction process, the drafting committee also followed Decree 72 on setting up servers and offices in Vietnam. Then, when submitting the Law on Cybersecurity at the 4th Session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly also asked how to adjust it to suit the recommendations of businesses and internet telecommunications corporations.

During the drafting process, the drafting team also had the opportunity to approach major telecommunications corporations in the world such as Google, Facebook, Youtube, American Business Association, ASEAN.... Thereby to explain and listen to their opinions on the Security billour network.

After the two sides worked and agreed, the representatives of those units agreed to adjust their strategies accordingly. The corporations themselves, these units also see our adjustments and regulations as appropriate. It is completely unlikely that Google and Facebook will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. And certainly with a market share like that of Vietnam, currently 48 million Facebook accounts and will certainly be larger, so there is no such thing as rumors. There is absolutely no information about this"	"Along with that, the authorities have also developed and published documents of a warning nature, which is recently the Code of Conduct on social networks issued by the Ministry of Information and Communications to help all public people ensure the right to freedom of speech, at the same time, show a sense of responsibility, preserve fine customs and traditions, and contribute to the construction and defense of the Fatherland.

Freedom of speech is one of the basic human rights. In Vietnam, Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution affirms that citizens have the right to freedom of expression and emphasizes that ""The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law"". That corresponds to the requirements set out in international documents that Vietnam has signed.

For example: Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (the Declaration) affirms that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion, freedom to express opinions, to seek, receive and impart information and opinions by any means. media regardless of national borders; At the same time, Article 29 of the Declaration affirms that in exercising this right, everyone must comply with such limitations as are established by law in order to ensure recognition and respect for the rights of others, and to meet justifiable ethical requirements. , public order, the general welfare in a democratic society.

Similarly, paragraph 2 of Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights affirms that “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression”, while paragraph 3 of Article 19 emphasizes that the exercise of this right is accompanied by the obligation, special responsibility, subject to certain limitations as prescribed by law in order to respect the rights and reputation of others, protect national security or public order, health, morality...

In the context of the internet - emerging as a rapidly growing but very complex social network, in order for people's right to freedom of speech to be strictly and comprehensively enforced, laws and sub-law documents on freedom of speech has been increasingly improved to both ensure the rights of citizens and help them to be exercised on the basis of the law.

Specifically: Law on Press, Law on Access to Information, Law on Cybersecurity, Penal Code (with Article 117 ""Crime of making, storing, distributing or propagating information, documents and items aimed at the State against the State, The Socialist Republic of Vietnam”, Article 155 “Criminal humiliation of others”, Article 156 “Slander”, Article 167 “Crime of infringing upon the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press and access to information…”, Article 331 ""Crime of abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals""...), Law on Telecommunications (Article 12 ""Prohibited acts in telecommunications activities"" Communication"" has Clause 4 which is ""Distributing information that distorts, slanders, offends the reputation of organizations, honor and dignity of individuals""), Civil Code (Article 32 on ""Individuals' rights to image"", Article 34 on ""The right to protection of honor, dignity and prestige""...); Decree 72/2013/ND-CP on “Management, provision and use of Internet services and online information”, Decree 15/2020/ND-CP “Regulations on sanctioning of administrative violations in the field of postal, telecommunications, radio frequency, information technology and electronic transactions”… In response, in 2016, the Vietnam Journalists Association issued “10 articles of the Code of Professional Ethics for Journalists.” Vietnam"", until 2018, the Journalists Association continued to issue ""Rules for using social networks by Vietnamese journalists"".

However, the reality also shows that, when the internet and social networks develop at a rapid pace, not only Vietnam but also other countries around the world have to face challenges from the complexity and difficulty of the internet. Control over information is derived from the view that freedom of expression on social networks is absolute, without limits. Judging from the relationship of nature - phenomenon, freedom - necessity, objective - subjectivity, in many cases, if challenges are not overcome, if challenges cannot be regulated, everyone can be offended. attack on social networks without having a chance to reclaim honor and justice. Even at the national level, there is a risk of falling into an information chaos - a factor that can cause disturbances in the human mind and social disorders.

Therefore, not only Vietnam, but also countries around the world have taken resolute measures on the law, both recommending citizens to behave civilly on social networks, so that freedom of speech can operate actively and meet the needs of the people. meet the requirements of healthy development of society and people. Based on the choice of development direction, cultural traditions, specific conditions and contexts, etc., each country has built its own system of legal criteria for freedom of speech for its country.

As in Singapore, with the Law on Protection from Online Manipulation and Deception, fake news is considered to be against the interests and stability of the community, compromises public safety and security, and harms the public. harming health, inciting hatred among social groups, reducing trust in the functions and duties of state agencies, damaging relations between Singapore and other countries; If found to be spreading fake news on social media, when the authorities ask for correction and do not comply, they can be fined up to S$20,000 or jailed for 12 months (or both). Singapore also has a regulation on speakingdefamation, defamation, slander in daily life and on social media will result in a fine of up to S$100,000 or imprisonment for up to 3 years (or both); slander, defamation is punishable by a fine of up to S$20,000 or imprisonment for 12 months (or both).

In the United States, limits on freedom of speech are reflected in court precedents, which give the government the power to prevent and punish speech that is obscene, defamatory, obscene, offensive, or aggressive. The US Supreme Court has affirmed that freedom of speech does not mean the right to fabricate slander and defamation of individuals. In France, Germany, etc., the laws related to freedom of speech all set strict limits and sanctions for the abuse of freedom of speech that affects the legitimate rights and interests of others. and at the same time fight against slander, libel, racism, religion, incitement to violence, hatred, invasion of personal privacy... Expression of views on the internet is also governed by press law.

There are also many other punitive rules and regulations such as the Code of Practice for online social media platform providers in the UK; Code of Conduct on Social Media and Online Commenting in Australia... Not only each individual country, the European Union (EU) has also issued a Code of Conduct on the internet, Facebook, Twitter, Google has also assisted in establishing a Code of Conduct with a commitment to ensuring prompt access to, marking, and removal of hate speech and illegal content on their platforms. By 2020, the social network TikTok has also joined this Code of Conduct.

In Vietnam, although there are specific legal provisions, the authorities have repeatedly recommended, and many statements and violations are strictly handled, but recently the status of violations in statements Comments, news, mentions and discussions about organizations or other people on some social networks are on the increase, even quite complicated.

While many Vietnamese people, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, education, region, etc., use social networks as a means of connecting with relatives and friends with similar interests to share and confide. , exchange, learn, help cultivate knowledge, spread and multiply the values ​​of truth - goodness - beauty, etc., there are still many individuals who behave arbitrarily, without culture, even negatively on the internet. social networks, causing public opinion to be disgruntled and harshly voiced. It seems that these citizens mistakenly believe that social media is a place where freedom of speech has no limits, is not within the scope of national law, is not related to community cultural norms, so they behave regardless of the law, cultural norms? Then when the authorities warned and handled, they loudly said that the right to freedom of speech was violated, creating an excuse for the bad guys to take advantage of slander Vietnam!

In essence, when giving opinions, commenting, sharing content, etc. on a social network, an organization or individual has committed an act related to freedom of expression. Opinions, comments, shares, etc., whether positive or negative, cultural or counter-cultural, directly affect viewers and listeners. Thus, the above-mentioned acts are no longer within the limits of individuals, but are community activities, so they must comply with the limits permitted by law. Overcoming that limit, organizations and individuals will push themselves to the point of breaking the law, so they should be advised to self-regulate.

Therefore, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued the Code of Conduct on social networks (the Code) with the following criteria: “respect, comply with the law; healthy; information security; responsibility” is necessary and appropriate. It should also be noted that although the criteria do not combine the requirements of reward and punishment, it is only a recommendation, but from the sense of responsibility of citizens as well as to the community, if everyone participating in social networks behaves according to The criteria of the Code will make an important contribution to building a safe and healthy cyber environment in Vietnam."
"Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 19, Universal Declaration human rights (UDHR) in 1948 states: “Everyone has the right to freedom of speech and expression; including freedom to hold opinions without interference; as well as freedom to seek, receive and impart ideas and information through any media, and without frontiers”. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) 1966 also stipulates: “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas, regardless of domain, orally, in writing, in print, or in the form of art, through any media of their choice”. It can be said that freedom of speech is an important basis for the full realization of other human rights and is associated with the right to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, association, freedom of thought, belief and religion. education, as well as the right to participate in the management of state and social affairs.

However, along with the development of information technology in this day and age, the form of expression of free speech has undergone a great change. The Internet and social networks have become popular tools for all individuals and organizations to express their views and ideas, spread information, and express their right to freedom of expression. Its pervasiveness and influence are sometimes stronger and faster than traditional journalism and other forms of expression. This fact has raised many social and legal problems, including the management of information in cyberspace.

Limits of freedom of expression in cyberspace

Freedom of speech is a basic human right, but it must always be limited within the framework of the law. Article 19 of the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: “The exercise of the right to freedom of expression may be subject to certain limitations and these should be provided for by law, in order to : a) Respect the rights or reputation of others; b) Protect national security or public order, health or morals of society”. Thus, freedom of speech is not absolute freedom. Under certain circumstances, freedom of expression may conflict with other legitimate values ​​or rights.

Especially, in the context of the explosion of the internet and social networks, information becomes more complex and difficult to control. Through electronic information sites and social networks, users can freely express opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts without incurring any liability. which limit. Expressing one's freedom of speech has never been so easy and so contagious. But this itself also brings risks when this right is abused, especially when those who post information on cyberspace have wrong views, extreme attitudes, inadequate legal awareness...

Looking at the law enforcement practices of many countries around the world, it can be seen that there is no such thing as absolute freedom of speech. Each country, depending on specific conditions and contexts, imposes certain limits on the exercise of free speech by its citizens. In the United States, the limits of freedom of expression are shown mainly in the case law of the courts, especially the US Supreme Court, which allows the government to prevent and punish speech of a pornographic nature. , obscene, defamatory, offensive and aggressive, without being considered unconstitutional.

In France, the law on freedom of speech sets forth strict limits and sanctions to punish abuses of the right to freedom of expression that affect the legitimate rights and interests of others, including the protection of human dignity, against slander and libel; against racial and religious discrimination; against inciting violence and hatred (Law on Freedom of the Press, 1881); against invasion of privacy (Civil Code); Prohibit the publication of certain documents related to national security (Criminal Law). Expressing personal views on the internet is also governed by the Press Freedom Law.

In addition to France, many other European countries are also very strict in this regard in order to combat all forms of inciting propaganda, and to carry out criminal sanctions for hate speech and incitement. Italy, Spain, and Turkey also criminalize acts of defamation, insulting the honor of the president or members of the royal family. In addition, in a joint effort to prevent the abuse of free speech to make hateful and negative statements on the internet, the European Union (EU) has issued a Code of Conduct on the internet with commitment to combines the actions of four of the world's largest network enterprises including Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Microsoft. These moves aim to ""ensure the people's right to true freedom of expression and create the basis for building a truly democratic and civilized society.""(first).

Most recently, in the midst of a ""storm"" of fake news about the COVID-19 epidemic, a series of countries around the world have implemented many sanctions, from warnings, fines to jailing those who spread false rumors. true. In China, the act of spreading false information about the epidemic is punishable by fines, public surveillance or imprisonment from 3 to 7 years if causing serious consequences. In South Korea, President Moon Jae-in declared spreading fabricated information about the epidemic a ""serious offense"". Meanwhile, in Malaysia, the Government has arrested 6 people for posting false information about the Corona virus. Iranian police also arrested a person for posting a fake video, announcing a hospitalized COVID-19 patient on social networks. In the UK, a ""misinformation control unit"" has been set up to conduct the identification of COVID-19 fake news and liaise with media businesses to remove it.

Fighting against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace in Vietnam today


Internet and social network users, especially young people, need to improve their awareness and ability to self-screen information_Photo: Documentation
Freedom in general and freedom of speech in particular need to be understood as freedom within the framework of the law. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1953 European Convention on Human Rights, and the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights all affirm the right to freedom of expression, but also emphasize freedom of speech as freedom. within the limits of morality and law, mainly aimed at protecting the dignity and honor (private life) of others, protecting business secrets, preventing discrimination, discrimination, and inciting violence force, war, resisting criticism, criticizing the government, especially if they are calls for riots, threatening public order and national security. Therefore, each country can consider its actual situation to concretize the exercise of citizens' right to freedom of expression.

Obviously, in any political regime there can be no absolute freedom of speech, countries strictly handle acts of abusing freedom of speech; promoting freedom of speech must be for the common good, not the absolutization of individual freedom, not taking advantage of freedom of speech to write, speak, or distort with bad intentions, regardless of morality and law. France.

In Vietnam, the Party and State always respect and guarantee human rights, including citizens' right to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is considered a constitutional right right in the first Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1946: “Vietnamese citizens have the following rights: freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence and movement in the country and abroad” (Article 10). The 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam continues to affirm: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law” (Article 25). Besides, we also have the Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016. Our country's legal framework on basic freedom of expression is adequate, synchronous and compatible with international law on human rights. Like other countries in the world, Vietnam has regulations to limit and prevent acts of abusing freedom of speech, infringing upon national interests, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , citizen.

Aware of the importance, benefits and dangers of the internet and social networks, our Party and State have adopted appropriate guidelines and policies to develop the internet and social networks; at the same time protect network security and prevent and fight against taking advantage of the internet and social networks to distort, oppose the government, and infringe on the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. Among them are Directive No. 28-CT/TW, dated September 16, 2013, of the Secretariat of the XI term, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security""; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP, dated July 15, 2013, of the Government, on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”; Directive No. 15/CT-TTg, dated June 17, 2014, of the Prime Minister, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security and safety in the new situation"". The document of the 12th Party Congress clearly states: ""Focusing on the management of various types of information on the internet to orient the people's ideology and aesthetics, especially for young people and teenagers"". In addition, during the implementation of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW, dated January 22, 2018, of the Politburo, on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation and fighting against false views contrary, hostile in the new situation"", the Central Propaganda Department has strengthened the direction of the work of fighting and countering false information and claims, conspiracy, and activities taking advantage of the internet and social networks to fight back. destroy the Party and State. The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security proactively detect, fight, prevent and strictly handle those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to violate the law. The Cyber ​​Command (Ministry of National Defense) was established under Decision No. 1198/QD-TTg, ony August 15, 2017, by the Prime Minister, plays a pivotal role in ensuring national cyber security and safety, fighting against high-tech crime and ""peaceful evolution"" in cyberspace. The Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information in 2016 and the Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, both clearly stipulate acts such as posting and spreading false information, distorting, defaming, denying the government; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero; Untrue information, slander, insult to the reputation of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals ... are handled by law.

Reactionary and hostile forces at home and abroad have been taking advantage of freedom of speech to distort and destroy our Party and State, smear and slander the government, incite and confuse the people. , threatening national security and social order and safety. For example, regarding the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity, many websites and reactionary elements have distorted and distorted information, claiming that this law ""especially infringes on private space"", violate freedom of speech, the press, the internet"". Some people do not have enough information, lack of understanding, so they easily believe and make opposing statements, hindering the implementation of the Law. The Dong Tam incident on January 9, 2020 caused shock and division in the community because of too many conflicting news streams on social networks. Enemy forces also take this opportunity to propagate against the regime...

The phenomenon of spreading fake and false information online also causes many consequences. For example, while the State is making efforts to prevent, control and repel the COVID-19 epidemic, there are those who take advantage of the epidemic situation to propagate false information, distort the Party's policies and guidelines, State policies cause confusion in public opinion. They fabricated a false picture of the epidemic situation in Vietnam, spread fake news, made up stories about the number of infected people, the number of deaths, and announced that the rate of disease spread was many times higher than that of the Government. government announced, creating fear for the community, disturbing social life, causing doubts and conflicts between the people, the Party and the State. Through baseless information, hostile forces deliberately ignored the important results we have achieved, downplaying the Party's leadership role, the State's management capacity in handling the epidemic, slandered the State for concealing information, failing to prevent the epidemic from the beginning… Not only that, many subjects also intentionally spread false information about the epidemic situation in order to gain illicit profits. It is negative information that makes people afraid, rushing to buy masks, hoarding food, leading to the situation of ""stashing"" goods, ""blowing"" prices... Such acts cannot be used ""freely"". speech” to defend.

When we prevent the above misinformation and misinformation, hostile forces claim that this is ""a form of information censorship"", ""violating the right to freedom of speech"". The truth is, the above prevention is necessary, in accordance with the law, all countries in the world must do it. After the Ministry of Information and Communications promoted exchange and working activities with representatives of Facebook, Google proposed to prevent, process and remove information that violates Vietnamese law on social networks, thousands of videos, including those with content inciting against the Party and State, have been removed from Youtube; Thousands of links with illegal content, hundreds of fake accounts, propaganda against the Party and State have also been blocked by Facebook...

In order to fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace, it is necessary to implement synchronously the following solutions:

Firstly, education and propaganda to raise the responsibility of network users and the spirit of vigilance against rumors. Raising awareness and self-screening capacity of people and communities, forming positive behavior habits in the online environment. This is a key and long-term solution for each citizen to become an effective information filter for themselves and the community.

Secondly, regularly monitoring, surveying, evaluating, promptly adjusting, supplementing and perfecting the legal system, mechanisms and policies to help effective management while being consistent with the rules governing administrative culture in social and community activities, while keeping up with the development of social networks.

Third, it is necessary to strengthen technical measures. Specifically, adequate investment in agencies responsible for ensuring national cyber security and safety. Recruit and train a team of experts who are good at information technology, capable of effectively implementing technical and professional measures. At the same time, to encourage the development of Vietnam's social network; coordinate with major foreign social network service providers, such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, Youtube to promptly prevent, handle and eliminate risks affecting social safety and national security. family."	
"Vietnamese law recognizes and ensures the democratic freedoms of citizens, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of religion and other rights. other freedoms as prescribed by law. Accordingly, all citizens have the right to express their views and attitudes on social issues, and have the right to evaluate and comment on an event. Expressing opinions and attitudes can be done directly in social life or expressed on social networks.

Network users x&atilde; Society must be careful when spreading fake news
Users of social networks must be careful when posting information online
However, expressing one's views and attitudes on social issues must not be attributed, inferred, given false, unfounded information, or accused of others. Or the act of spreading false information about things that are known to be false in order to offend the honor and dignity of others, infringe upon the interests of organizations and individuals, is a violation of the law.

So, what behavior is prohibited in cyberspace, sir?

- According to Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity, prohibited acts in cyberspace are prohibited, including the act of ""false information causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities"". society, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals..."". Depending on the nature and severity of the violation, depending on the consequences, the person reporting false information in cyberspace may be subject to administrative fines or criminal prosecution.

If the act of abusing freedom and democracy, spreading false news causes negative impacts in social life, affects the prestige of the Party, the State or directly affects the interests of the organization. Organizations and individuals, this is a law violation that can be prosecuted for penal liability according to the provisions of Article 331 of the Penal Code for the crime of ""abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the state, the rights and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals”.

Recently, there was a case of a social network user being prosecuted for criminal responsibility for the crime of ""abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of organizations and individuals"". How do you rate the handling of criminal sanctions in this case?

- Recently, following the direction of the leadership of the Ministry of Public Security on combating and strictly handling all violations of the law, contributing to ensuring the stable operation of the stock market and corporate bond market. stable, healthy, transparent, safe and sustainable development, especially acts of reporting false and inaccurate information causing insecurity and safety of the market. The Investigation Security Agency of the Ministry of Public Security urgently arrested Mr. Dang Nhu Q. (born in 1980, residing in Me Tri ward, Nam Tu Liem district) to investigate the crime of ""abusing democratic freedoms to infringe on interests of the public. interests of organizations and individuals"".

Lawyer Dang Van Cuong
Lawyer Dang Van Cuong
Through investigation and verification, the professional units of the Ministry of Public Security discovered that Dang Nhu Q. had the act of using social networks to post unverified articles and information about a number of individuals and businesses. in the field of finance, securities, real estate, directly infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of the individuals and organizations mentioned above, showing signs of having a negative impact on the financial and securities markets of the above-mentioned individuals and organizations. Government.

This is not the first time social media users have been criminally prosecuted for this crime. It is worth noting that the violators of this crime are not only disgruntled and opposed to the government, but also people with education, social status and social understanding, but because they want to be famous. reputation, wanted to express personal ego, wanted to show off his talents, words but disregarded the law, disregarded the honor and dignity of others, disregarded the interests of others, so he was handled by criminal sanctions.

Does the fight against false and negative information in cyberspace have no restrictions, no exceptions, sir?

- The cases of handling cyber gangsters, facebookers, and people with a large number of followers on social networks in the past time with criminal sanctions show the determination of our Party and State in the struggle. crime prevention, especially high-tech crime. Fighting high-tech crime in the current context is necessary to ensure network security and safety, to ensure a clean and healthy network environment, and to be a favorable environment for economic activities. socio-cultural conditions for development.

Struggling with false and negative information in cyberspace also shows fairness, respect for the law, no forbidden zones, no exceptions. Any organization or individual that commits illegal acts in social life or in cyberspace, causing damage to social relations, shall be handled before the law. The handling of these acts creates favorable conditions for socio-economic development, ensuring the best rightsand interests of the State, organizations and individuals as prescribed by law."	
"Freedom of speech is one of the important rights of human and civil rights. Up to now, this right has not only been recognized in international human rights law, but also affirmed in the constitutions and laws of countries - regardless of political regimes and ideologies.

However, energy conservation rights in all countries have specific restrictions on rights. For example, for a religious state (such as the Vatican), or in countries where a certain religion is defined as the ""national religion"", there is a prohibition on insulting the ""supreme god"".

After the Law on Cybersecurity (ANM) was approved by the National Assembly at its 5th session (June 12, 2018), especially when the Government announced to collect comments on the draft Decree implementing the ANM Law, many pages Domestic and foreign websites have reported, commented and misrepresented in order to obstruct the implementation of this law (effective from January 1, 2019).

Some domestic political disruptors, spreading online, said that the ANM Law ""especially invades private space"" and ""creates a great economic burden"" for businesses"", ""Security Law"". network violates freedom of speech, press, Internet"", ""ANM Law violates privacy rights""...

In the United States, 17 extremist congressmen wrote to Google and Facebook suggesting that these two websites should leave Vietnam...

It can be said that the hostile forces at home and abroad have had a methodical plan to fight fiercely in the field of information and communication as in the ANM Law.

In Vietnam, since the State Democratic Republic of Vietnam (now the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam) was born, the Constitutions 1946, 1959, 1980, 1992, 2013, human rights and citizenship say In general, the right to energy conservation in particular is clearly stated and guaranteed in practice. The right to energy consumption only restricts acts that harm national security, social order and safety, and infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations.

With regard to human rights, the ANM Law is fully consistent with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966.

Article 19 of the Covenant provides: (1) Everyone has the right to hold his or her opinion without interference; (2) Everyone has the right to freedom of speech. This right includes freedom to seek, receive and impart all information… ; (3) The exercise of these rights is accompanied by special obligations and responsibilities to: (a) Respect the rights or reputations of others, (b) Protect national security or public order, the health or morals of society.

Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution stipulates: (1) In the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, human and civil rights in politics, civil, economic, cultural and social are recognized, respected and protected. , guaranteed according to the Constitution and the law. (2) Human rights and citizens' rights may be restricted only in accordance with the law in case of necessity for reasons of national defense, security, social order and safety, social morality, community health”.

The 2013 Constitution devoted a whole chapter to stipulating human rights, basic rights and obligations of citizens. Article 25 states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”.

Institutionalizing the 2013 Constitution, our National Assembly has developed and passed many laws related to energy conservation rights. For example, the Press Law 2016; Law on Access to Information 2016; Decree of the Government on management, provision and use of Internet services and network information ... Among the relevant laws and decrees, the right to energy consumption in general, the right to freely use the Internet and social networks of citizens respected and guaranteed.

The Press Law 2016 stipulates: Citizens have the right to create journalistic works; provide information to the press; express opinions on the situation of the country and the world; participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State... (Chapter II).

The Law clearly stipulates the prohibited acts: Posting and broadcasting information against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam such as distorting, defaming, denying the people's administration; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; causing division among people of all classes, between the people and the government, the armed forces, political organizations, socio-political organizations; undermining the policy of international solidarity; inciting war against the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero. (Article 9).

The Law on Access to Information 2016 stipulates: “All citizens are equal, without discrimination in exercising the right to access information; the information provided must be accurate and complete; the provision of information must be timely, transparent and convenient for citizens; in accordance with the order and procedures as prescribed by law; The restriction of the right to access information must be prescribed by law in case of necessity for reasons of national defense, security, social order and safety, social ethics, and community health. The exercise of citizens' right to access information must not infringe upon the interests of the nation, the nation, the rights ofand legitimate interests of agencies, organizations or other people”.

The Government's Decree on the management and use of Internet services and online information (2013) defines policies on development and management of the Internet and online information.

The Decree clearly states: Promote the use of the Internet in all economic and social activities... to increase labor productivity, create jobs and improve quality of life; ... promote the introduction of healthy information, useful to the Internet; prevent acts of taking advantage of the Internet to affect national security, social order and safety, violate ethics, fine customs and regulations and violate the law. Apply measures to protect children and young people from the negative impacts of the Internet; ensure that only information that is lawful under Vietnamese law is transmitted, including cross-border transmission, to Internet users in Vietnam (Article 4).

Prohibited acts are posting information “against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; causing harm to national security, social order and safety; propagandize, incite violence, lewdness, debauchery, crime, social evils, superstition, and destroy the nation's fine customs and traditions…” (Article 5).

Thus, Vietnamese law transparently stipulates the rights and obligations of citizens in general, and the right to energy conservation (including the right to access information on the Internet and social networks) in particular. Restrictions on this right (specified in ""prohibited"" acts) for acts that infringe upon national security, social order and safety, social morality, infringe upon the rights and legitimate interests of law of citizens, organizations...

The allegation spread on the Internet that: The Cybersecurity Law violates freedom of speech, press, Internet, violates privacy... is baseless. Like other laws in the field of information mentioned above, the Law on ANM only restricts acts that are detrimental to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. . One of the principles of the ANM Law is: To closely combine the task of protecting national security with the task of socio-economic development, ensuring human rights and citizens' rights; proactively prevent, block, fight and frustrate all activities using cyberspace by hostile forces and political opportunistic elements at home and abroad.

Cases related to Internet and social media use such as the case of Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh (Da Nang), for the crime of ""Propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam"", according to Article 88 of the Penal Code); the case of Le Dinh Luong (Nghe An) on the crime of ""Activities aimed at overthrowing the people's administration"", according to Article 79 of the Penal Code, the subjects all used the Internet and social networks (mainly Facebook, blogs). , set up accounts to operate in order to gather forces, spread documents, smear the Party and State, distort policies, laws, Vietnamese revolutionary history, slander the police force...

For example, Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh (account ""Mother Mushroom"") has spread thousands of articles and documents distorting the regime, including the file ""Stop police killing civilians"" civilians). Or Le Dinh Luong (account ""Lo Ngoc"") connects, likes, and shares with other Facebook accounts to attract more people to Viet Tan terrorist organization, gather forces to overthrow the people's government. …

Thus, it is absolutely not the case that Vietnam's law in general, the law on energy consumption, including the Law on ANM, violate human rights, violate ""private space"", ""violate freedom of speech and press"" newspapers, using the Internet, social networks” as some of the allegation.

The law of our State only severely punishes those who take advantage of electronic space and social networks to distort history, policies, laws, social regimes and the State, slander agencies and organizations, infringe upon the rights of organizations and individuals. lawful interests of individuals, organizations, community interests, etc.

In fact, the promulgation and strict implementation of the Law on Security is also an effective measure to ensure human rights and citizens' rights, to prevent and handle abuses and abuses, to ensure security and privacy. rights and order in cyberspace.

Having the habit of startling, the reason why hostile forces aggressively incite public opinion at home and abroad to distort the ANM Law is because from here, our State has one more effective legal tool to prevent and handle those Bad guys are trying to take advantage of cyberspace to fight against the regime and the State, and infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations.

At the same time, the bad guys use the pretext to resist because they don't want human rights and citizenship in Vietnam to be guaranteed. Therefore, it is necessary to be alert to identify and exclude false and hostile views in order to interfere and hinder the implementation of the Law on ANM."	
"Reporters: Freedom of speech is protected by law, even in cyberspace. However, not everyone knows how to properly express this right in life and on social networks. Lawyers, what is the legal limit on freedom of speech? How is exercising the right to freedom of speech different from abusing it to infringe upon the rights and interests of individuals and organizations?

. Lawyer Ngo Huynh Phuong Thao: Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, meetings, associations, and demonstrations. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Thus, according to the Constitution, the ""right to freedom of speech"" of all citizens is the right to be free within the limits prescribed by law, in accordance with the moral values, culture and good traditions of the country. Ethnic Vietnam. Freedom of speech is different from arbitrarily slandering, defaming or infringing upon individuals and organizations.

Freedom of speech: What is the law? photo 1
Lawyer Ngo Huynh Phuong Thao

Organizations and individuals operating in cyberspace must comply with the general provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity. In Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity, prohibited acts such as: Undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating on gender and racial discrimination; misinformation…

More specifically, Decree 15/2020 clearly stipulates the level of administrative penalties for acts of spreading fake information, causing confusion on social networks. Article 101 of Decree 15/2020 stipulates: A fine of between VND 10 million and VND 20 million shall be imposed for taking advantage of social networks to provide or share fake, untrue or distorting information. slander, insult the reputation of agencies, organizations, honor and dignity of individuals; providing, sharing fabricated information, causing confusion among the people, inciting violence, crimes, social evils...

Currently, the Ministry of Information and Communications has just issued a Code of Conduct on social networks, effective from June 17, 2021, which also recognizes the code of conduct of organizations and individuals such as not posting content. content that violates the law, information that is offensive to honor and dignity affecting the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; use offensive language, violate fine customs and traditions; spreading fake news, disinformation...

Thus, any act of freedom of speech that violates the prohibition of the law mentioned above is a violation of the law. Therefore, everyone has the right to freedom of speech, but must comply with the limits prescribed by law, and cannot use this right to attack or insult other organizations and individuals.

+ According to the lawyer, to limit the situation of personal attacks on social networks, what additional solutions are needed?

. First, state management agencies such as the Ministry of Information and Communications and local authorities need to tighten management and supervision of activities taking place in cyberspace, quickly and promptly handle violations strictly. .

With the popularity of livestream, authorities need to monitor the implementation of the code of conduct on social networks. Specific standards have been issued, participants need to know how to adjust their behavior accordingly. Before you want to transmit any content, you must consider it so as not to violate the allowed standards. At the same time, social network participants rely on general rules to have a basis for proposing and handling livestreams that exceed ethical and legal values.

In addition, technology sites such as Youtube, Facebook ... should be responsible for screening content, immediately removing clips and livestreams with infringing content."	
"In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the ANM Law dedicates a chapter (Chapter III) that fully prescribes measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. , detect and handle violations of the law, including: Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of State secret information, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace; prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about ANM; fight to protect ANM. This is a solid legal corridor so that people can safely do business, do business or operate in cyberspace.

Chapter IV, Law on ANM focuses on the implementation of ANM protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, focusing on state agencies and political organizations, clearly stipulating the contents of ANM protection activities. content of implementing and checking ANM for information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations, synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of Others will be dealt with severely. Activities of ANM research and development, technology development, products, services and applications to protect ANM, improve ANM autonomy and protect children in cyberspace are also regulated. details in this chapter.

Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even being used for political conspiracy. rule or violate the law. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the ANM Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in the air. In Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by service users in Vietnam. The creator must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.

Chapter V, Law on ANM fully stipulates the contents to ensure the implementation of ANM protection activities, identifies a specialized force to protect ANM, prioritizes training high quality ANM human resources, focuses on education and training. fostering and disseminating knowledge about ANM.

The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on ANM, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized ANM protection force located at the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. According to their assigned functions and tasks, ministries, functional branches, and provincial People's Committees are responsible for synchronously implementing assigned measures to move towards a low-risk cyberspace, minimizing illegal activities. violate the law in cyberspace.

Although it was carefully prepared and approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, because this is a law with provisions on prevention, combat and direct handling of activities infringing upon national security in cyberspace. Therefore, there are still doubts about the content of the law. Some objects oppose propaganda and distortion with such statements as ""against humanity"", ""silence democracy"", ""suppress dissent"", ""create barriers to business"", ""increase spending"". business fees"", ""additional sub-licenses"", ""abuse of power"", ""ban using Facebook, Google"". These are completely fabricated and distorted information in order to obstruct or cause confusion and suspicion among the masses about the Party's guidelines, the State's policies and laws on ANM. The ANM Law does not contain the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not issue sub-licenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals."	
"Vietnam is facing four major challenges in terms of cybersecurity: Firstly, the development of social networks makes an important contribution to socio-economic development, but also creates a favorable environment for impact activities. political transformation, terrorism.

Second, the development of artificial intelligence has been creating outstanding scientific and technological achievements, playing an increasingly important role in many areas of social life, but is also forecasted to cause serious problems in the future. should be ""catastrophic"" if not strictly controlled.

Third, the increasingly popular Internet-connected devices not only bring great benefits to human life, socio-economic development, national defense and security assurance, but also can be used to advance conduct large-scale cyber attacks.

Fourth, targeted cyber attacks (Advanced Peristent Threat (APT)) can not only sabotage important national security targets and works, but also appropriate information and confidential documents, take over stolen to use big data systems, fast data for political purposes and criminal activities.

The Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, creating the necessary legal basis to solve the current cybersecurity challenges

The Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, creating the necessary legal basis to solve the current cybersecurity challenges

In the above context, protect national sovereignty, interests and security in cyberspace; preventing and combating cyberattacks, cybercrimes, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism, cyberwar and responding to new threats from cyberspace becoming a global problem, identified as core content, survival in protection and development in many countries around the world, including Vietnam.

The need to enact laws

The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity comes from the urgent requirements of the domestic cybersecurity situation, the protection of national security, State secrets, social order and safety, rights and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals, in accordance with international practices and provisions of the Constitution.

First of all, the promulgation of the law will meet the urgent requirements of the cyber security situation in protecting national security, ensuring social order and safety, such as preventing and fighting against failure of Internet use activities. using cyberspace to infringe upon national sovereignty and security, propagate ideological sabotage, sabotage internal affairs, incite demonstrations, riots, and disrupt security and order...; Preventing, stopping, responding to and overcoming consequences of activities of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, and combating cyber wars; Protect information systems important to national security and apply necessary and commensurate measures.

Second, to overcome the basic shortcomings and limitations in network security protection, that is: There exists an unclear understanding between network security and network information security, leading to a number of overlapping problems. cross and overlap in the performance of network security protection functions and tasks among functional ministries and branches; There is no legal document regulating cyber security, so there is not enough legal basis for functional forces to fight against illegal acts in cyberspace.

Third, fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity.

Fourth, ensure compliance with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, basic rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland.

Fifth, ensure compliance with international practices, when many countries around the world have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity.

It can be said that the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity has great significance, not only for the cybersecurity protection activities of the specialized cybersecurity protection force under the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Information and Communications. Communication, but also for society as a whole, creates the necessary legal basis to solve the cybersecurity challenges that are posed."	
"At the Conference of Reporters of the Provincial Party Committees, Party Committees and Party Committees directly under the Central Government in July 2018 organized by the Central Propaganda Department on July 13 in an online form, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Department Cybersecurity (Ministry of Public Security) has informed the basic contents of the Law on Cybersecurity; Some sensitive issues attract the attention of public opinion around this Law to the reporters.

The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the 5th Session of the XIV National Assembly. The Law consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

The Law on Cybersecurity has been elaborately prepared, with the participation of ministries and functional agencies, more than 30 large domestic telecommunications and information technology enterprises, and the broad opinion of the people. .

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated to meet the urgent requirements of cybersecurity in the current situation because our country is dealing with tens of thousands of cyberattacks with a large scale. large and intense every year, directly threatening national security and social order and safety, causing heavy economic losses; Cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and illegal gatherings to disrupt security and order. inciting riots, terrorism, overthrowing the people's administration, infringing upon national sovereignty, interests and security.

According to the Lieutenant General, the state of publishing information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; Spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale. ..

Around a number of contents of the Law that are of interest to the public, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that personal information is strictly protected by the Law on Cybersecurity. The relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals must protect business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.

Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not control all personal information of users; Only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cybersecurity, the Law on Cybersecurity requires enterprises to provide personal information related to such violations. The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by competent authorities. approve.

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the Law on Cybersecurity protects the legitimate interests of Vietnamese citizens when using network services, specifically: Being protected when participating in cyber activities against malicious and malicious information. infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts affecting their legitimate rights and interests;

To participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training. The law creates a legal basis for citizens to actively protect their rights in cyberspace. All illegal acts in cyberspace that infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of citizens will be handled in accordance with the law.

Deploying the Law on Cybersecurity in the near future, Director General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that authorities are focusing on developing decrees to guide the implementation of the Law, including a decree guiding a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity. network security; a decree on handling of administrative violations of network security; a decree detailing the order and procedures for applying network security protection measures; Decision of the Prime Minister on data storage and representative office in Vietnam.

The director affirmed that in the coming time, he will work closely with the Central Propaganda Department to propagate the contents of the Law to the people."	
"The new Cybersecurity Law passed by the National Assembly is one of the contents of interest to the Vietnamese and foreign business communities, especially regulations related to the responsibilities of service providers on the Internet. cyberspace.

At the same time, many representatives of authorities and businesses assessed that the Law on Cybersecurity will contribute to creating a healthy and equal business environment.

Do not hinder business activities

It should be affirmed that business activities of enterprises are not regulated by the Law on Cybersecurity, but by other laws such as the Enterprise Law, Commercial Law, Competition Law... Law on Security. Cybersecurity is only regulated if the cyber services provided by these businesses are used for illegal purposes.

Specifically, Clause 8, Article 16 stipulates that enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace must coordinate with competent authorities in handling information with propaganda content. against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management. This is information that violates the law, every country will handle it.

Clause 3, Article 19 stipulates that enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and additional services in cyberspace must coordinate with specialized forces to protect network security to prevent and eliminate acts of cybercrime. network attack. This is a necessary activity, belonging to the responsibility, not related to business activities.

Point b, Clause 2, Article 21 stipulates that telecommunications, Internet, information technology enterprises, service providers on telecommunications networks, the internet, and added services in cyberspace are responsible for coordinating with The Ministry of Public Security in preventing, detecting and handling dangerous situations in cyber security.

A dangerous cyber security situation is an event that occurs in cyberspace when there is a serious act of infringing upon national security, causing particularly serious harm to social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. laws of agencies, organizations and individuals. Therefore, when a dangerous cyber security situation occurs, businesses are responsible for coordinating handling.

Article 26 stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to coordinate with specialized forces to protect network security. in network information security.

Clause 2, Article 29, stipulates the responsibilities of domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in handling information that is harmful to children. in cyberspace.

Article 41 stipulates the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in preventing and handling cyberattacks; warn of the possibility of network insecurity and coordinate and create conditions for the specialized network to protect network security in network security protection activities.

Thus, of the seven regulations related to the responsibilities of service providers in cyberspace, none of them are related to their business activities, start-up activities, import and export. exporting and manufacturing equipment of enterprises. Except for coordinating with the network security protection force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedy, handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to fulfill any other obligations for their business activities.

Facing some distorting propaganda opinions, leading the public to believe that the Law on Cybersecurity will hinder business activities of enterprises, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan (Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, Ministry of Public Security) ) affirms that this law contains no provisions governing the establishment of a business, start-up, investment, purchase, sale, or business of an enterprise; The law also does not require businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sublicense to operate.

Create a healthy business environment

The Law on Cybersecurity is widely considered to be the legal basis for creating a very level playing field. Not only that, many representatives of telecommunications and network service businesses also said that businesses and customers in Vietnam will benefit when the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated.

Discussing this issue, Mr. Nguyen Hoa Binh, President of NextTech Group, said that since the Internet was present in Vietnam, there have been many cases of interference and cyberattacks on State agencies and businesses. by domestic and foreign ""hackers"". With such acts, the current law lacks legal corridors. The introduction of the Law on Cybersecurity helps to handle acts of intrusion and cyberattack, besides Mr. Binh said that Vietnamese enterprisesm will benefit from this legal corridor.

""There is currently no law regulating domestic and foreign enterprises for many years, creating injustice. For example, foreign enterprises doing business in Vietnam generate a lot of revenue, but are not headquartered in Vietnam. , do not create jobs for domestic workers, do not bring in tax revenue and are less subject to the management of the authorities, meanwhile, domestic enterprises directly create jobs and jobs for people. labor, is under the strict management of the authorities,"" analyzed the President of NextTech Group. Therefore, first of all, the Law will contribute to creating a healthy competitive environment between domestic and foreign enterprises in cyberspace. ""Accordingly, how domestic enterprises are managed, foreign enterprises must also be managed in the same way,"" Mr. Binh said.

In addition, for domestic internet service businesses, when internet data is stored in Vietnam, the cost of transmission lines will be reduced. For domestic businesses operating in commerce and advertising on the internet through Facebook, Google, Youtube..., foreign businesses will have to share tax obligations.

According to Mr. Le Dang Phong, Network Exploitation Department of VNPT-Net Network Infrastructure Corporation, with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, domestic customers will benefit when domestic and foreign businesses will develop, upgrade technical infrastructure; diversifying types as well as improving the quality of services in cyberspace."	
"Continuing the program of the session on the morning of November 23, the National Assembly deputies discussed in the hall the draft Law on Cybersecurity. The necessity of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity is a content analyzed and commented on by many National Assembly deputies at the discussion session.

According to the report, the Law on Cybersecurity was born to meet the requirements of cybersecurity work in protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety; preventing and responding to threats to network security; overcome existing and limitations related to network security protection; fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, basic rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland, and with international practices.

Verification of the draft Law, the National Assembly's Committee on National Defense and Security approved the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity to protect national security, and at the same time demonstrated Vietnam's responsibility in cooperating in solving cases. using cyberspace to terrorize and sabotage world security and peace.

Through the discussion, many delegates agreed with the need for a Law on Cybersecurity because in the current situation, cybersecurity is a matter of global concern, having a strong and comprehensive impact on various fields. of social life. Many countries promulgate laws, introduce policies to develop information technology, improve capacity to prevent, defend, prevent and attack in cyberspace to protect values, interests, security of the country. In our country, hostile forces, some types of criminals, and some other objects have been using cyberspace to commit acts of sabotage, profiteering or infringing upon, threatening to infringe upon the nation. defense, national security, social order and safety, property of the State, agencies, organizations and individuals, especially in the condition that the information technology infrastructure system is not synchronized. management still has many loopholes, the policy system is not synchronized.

Agreeing with the need for this law, delegate Trieu Tuan Hai (Lang Son) analyzed that Vietnam is currently in the group of countries with the most cyberattacks. Hostile forces and criminals thoroughly take advantage of the internet's utility, especially social networks, to conduct activities to infringe on security and order, causing instability in society. Vietnam has no legal documents on cyber security; Existing regulations on cyberinformation security are not enough to deter and prevent violations in cyberspace. Delegates expressed the view that the development and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary and suitable for the world, thereby effectively contributing to solving difficulties and obstacles in the implementation of network security as well as prevention and combat against activities using the internet to infringe upon national security, social order and safety.

Asking the question, why there is a Law on Cyber ​​​​Information Security but still have to develop a Law on Cyber ​​​​Security, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau (Nghe An) analyzed that the scope of regulation of the two laws is completely different. Citing the Penal Code, which regulates all crimes, the Law on Anti-corruption or the Law on Drug Prevention and Control prescribes measures to prevent and fight more intensively with the types of crimes that the state sees. More dangerous, it is necessary to prioritize prevention and control, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau argued: The Law on Cyberinformation Security protects information security on the three most common attributes, that is, the integrity of information; confidentiality of information; availability of information. The draft Law on Cybersecurity focuses on combating malicious information, infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations in the network environment. Affirming that this is the fundamental difference between the Law on Cyberinformation Security and the Law on Cybersecurity, delegate Nguyen Huu Cau found that it is normal to have more specialized laws on the network environment. The US, China, UK... already have a Law on Cybersecurity that the Drafting Board consulted when developing this law.

Debating again with delegate Nguyen Huu Cau, delegate Nguyen Lan Hieu (An Giang) assessed that the cybersecurity protection measures in the draft Law on Cybersecurity have many similarities with the Law on Cyberinformation Security. . Delegate Nguyen Lan Hieu suggested that the National Assembly should complete and supplement existing laws, strengthen the management of social networks in the Civil Code, the Penal Code, and the Law on Access to Information to prevent fake news. ... In order to ensure a democratic development environment but still ensure national security, it is necessary to consider carefully and carefully before promulgating a law regulating this very sensitive field, the delegate suggested.

With the same view, delegate Nguyen Thi Kim Thuy (Da Nang) said that the reasons given by the Drafting Committee included: Meeting the requirements of cybersecurity work in protecting national security, ensuring order and security. all society; preventing and responding to threats to network security; overcome the existence and limitations related to network security protection toTo explain the need to enact the Law is not convincing. Delegates analyze the network as just a means and a space where acts of violating national security can take place. If it is said that there should be a separate law on cyber security, security in many other fields such as aviation security, food security ... must also be regulated by separate laws. ""As for the field of network information protection, this has been stipulated in the Law on Cyberinformation Security,"" the delegate stated.

For the reasons that the Law on Cybersecurity was born to fully and promptly institutionalize the Party's guidelines and guidelines on cybersecurity; ensure conformity with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution on human rights, fundamental rights of citizens and defense of the Fatherland; To ensure conformity with international practices, delegate Thuy said that in fact the provisions on this issue in Chapter 2 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity are just concretization and guidance on the implementation of regulations on security and privacy. Network information security assurance is specified in Chapter 2 of the Law on Cyberinformation Security. These specific contents are specified in Chapter 4, Decree 85 of the Government on responsibility to ensure information system security.

The draft Law was first submitted to the National Assembly for consideration at this session. Through the comments of the National Assembly deputies, Minister of Public Security To Lam spoke, explained and clarified some of the issues raised by the delegates at the discussion session, thereby completing the draft Law submitted to the National Assembly. National Assembly at the next session."	
"The National Assembly has just passed the Law on Cybersecurity with 86.86% of the delegates agreeing. The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity comes from the context of the domestic cybersecurity situation and the requirement to protect national security, State secrets, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals, in accordance with international practices and the provisions of the Constitution...

However, in recent times, there has been a lot of inaccurate information on the Internet, social networks said that the Law on Cybersecurity will create ""business barriers,"" ""increase costs for businesses,"" ""sublicenses."" ...

Some dissidents also posted information on social networks and websites with bad, malicious, distorting content, hindering the passage of this law.

It is strictly forbidden to perform illegal acts in cyberspace

Lieutenant General, Associate Professor-Dr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department, Ministry of Public Security, affirmed that the Cybersecurity Law only prohibits illegal acts in cyberspace, there are no regulations. ban Facebook, Google or foreign service providers from operating in Vietnam.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit or prevent citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. This act also has no provisions prohibiting citizens from using social networking services such as Facebook, Google...

The Law on Cybersecurity also does not prohibit citizens from participating in activities in cyberspace or accessing and using information in cyberspace, nor does it prohibit citizens from starting, creating, exchanging, or deploying information on the Internet. their creative ideas in cyberspace.

""People can safely use Facebook, Youtube ... if they do not violate the prohibitions prescribed by law, including expressing their personal views on social networks. However, if they express their personal views, If a person offends another person's dignity, honor, religion, ethnicity, etc., this is a prohibited act. protected by law, any activities are prohibited so that network users do not get into violations,"" said Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan.

Prohibited acts to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. Everyone must be responsible for their actions and statements in cyberspace if such actions or statements infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals.

No control over citizens' personal information

Facing speculations and concerns about the abuse of power by the authorities after the Law on Cybersecurity was passed, Lieutenant General Thuan said, this is a content that many people do not understand, do not read carefully the law and the forces. The enemy takes advantage of this ignorance to incite and confuse public opinion.

A specialized network security agency only supervises illegal acts in cyberspace. In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that if a person performing an official duty on network security abuses his/her power or infringes upon the rights of individuals or organizations, they will also be severely handled.

""So there is certainly no abuse of power here,"" emphasized Lieutenant General Thuan.

Lieutenant General Thuan added that the Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request request for user information. Currently, there is a lot of information on the internet that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information and private information to the authorities is incorrect.

No ""sub-license"" is generated

Director of the Cybersecurity Department Hoang Phuoc Thuan affirmed that there is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sublicense to be allowed to operate.

""Certainly, the cybersecurity agency will not issue any sub-licenses arising after the Cybersecurity Law takes effect,"" Lieutenant General Thuan affirmed and added, except for coordinating with the specialized force to handle the situation. violations of the law in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedial and handling of illegal acts, enterprises are not required to comply with the law. any other obligations for its business.

There is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase and sale, and business activities."	
"On the afternoon of June 14, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' regular press conference, answering reporters' questions about the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Spokesperson Le Thi Thu Hang said that the Law on Cybersecurity Cybersecurity was approved on June 12, 2018 with a high number of votes after many rounds of discussion and collection of opinions widely and transparently of the National Assembly deputies and the people.

The Law on Cybersecurity is consistent with the Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties to which Vietnam is a member. Cybersecurity is an important issue that affects national security.

In recent years, cybersecurity has become a special concern of many countries and international and regional organizations. Attacks targeting the network environment develop rapidly in both form and scale, cross-border nature, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of countries.

Meanwhile, efforts to improve security in the network environment still face many difficulties, especially due to the lack of legal institutions and capacity to ensure network security. Therefore, the development of the Law on Cybersecurity is absolutely necessary in the current context.

Creating breakthroughs for the economy, bringing into play local advantages

In response to a question about the purpose of developing the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, the Spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that over the years, the State of Vietnam has continuously improved its policies, laws and regulations. comprehensively implement many measures to better ensure the people's legitimate rights and interests, promote the cause of national construction and defense, proactively and actively integrate into the world. The draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units is part of the National Assembly's law- and ordinance-making program in 2018.

The draft Law was developed with the aim of creating breakthroughs and new development motivations for the economy, bringing into play local advantages."	
"In our country, the strong application and development of information technology in all fields of life has greatly contributed to speeding up the process of industrialization and modernization of the country, economic, cultural and social development. society, improve the quality of health care and education, promote the people's creativity and mastery, and maintain security and national defense.

Cloud computing model. Illustration

Cloud computing model. Illustration

However, our country's current national potential for cybersecurity is not strong enough to mobilize and exploit synergy to deal with cyber threats. Cyberspace and a number of types of information technology services and applications are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to carry out their plots to conduct a ""color revolution"", ""street revolution"", ""evolution"". peace” to abolish the political regime in our country. The state of posting false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals is rampant on cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences in terms of human life, spirit, and even affecting sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety.

In addition, there are more and more large-scale and high-intensity cyber attacks, increasing in severity and danger level, directly threatening national security and social order and safety. festival. Cyber ​​terrorism has emerged as a serious threat to national security. Criminal activities on cyberspace are increasing in number of cases and sophisticated tricks causing serious economic losses, affecting ideology, culture and society.

Important national security information systems have not been identified and protected by adequate measures. Because the content of cybersecurity incidents has not been determined, when dangerous incidents occur, affecting sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, the implementation of response activities, handling and overcoming consequences of relevant authorities is very confused, there is no unified process, the agency responsible for network security protection has not been able to actively implement appropriate measures and plans.

The situation of revealing and leaking state secrets on cyberspace is very worrying, many documents belonging to state secrets are posted on cyberspace. One of the important reasons leading to this situation is the limited awareness of agencies, businesses and individuals about protecting state secrets on cyberspace, and the awareness and responsibility of many officials and employees. In information security on cyberspace is not high, sanctions are not enough deterrent.

Dependence on information technology equipment originating from abroad. Cyberspace is widely applied in all areas of social life, however, the dependence on information technology equipment originating from abroad is a potential threat to network security if a conflict occurs. sudden. In order to avoid being attacked by hackers, information gathering, intelligence activities, some network products and services need to meet certain standards and regulations, especially when these products and services are used by hackers. used in important information systems and national security, cipher and confidential locations, containing state secrets.

On the other hand, the system of legal documents on cyber security has not been developed, and the current documents do not meet the requirements of preventing, fighting and handling acts of using cyberspace in violation of the law.

For a healthy cyber environment

The elaboration and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity aims to: Complete the stable legal basis for cybersecurity in the direction of applying legal provisions in a synchronous and feasible manner in practice.

To bring into play the country's resources to ensure network security, develop the field of cyber security to meet the requirements of socio-economic development, national defense and security, contributing to improving the people's quality of life and ensure national defense and security.

Protecting the sovereignty, interests, national security, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in cyberspace activities, building a healthy cyberspace environment.

Deploying cybersecurity work on a national scale, stepping up monitoring, forecasting, response and rehearsal to respond to cyber security incidents, and protecting information systems important to national security; ensure the effectiveness of state management in this field.

Improve autonomy in cybersecurity, improve research policies, develop strategies, and share information on network security.

Expand international cooperation in cybersecurity on the basis of respect for independence, sovereignty, equality and mutual benefit, in accordance with domestic laws and international treaties to which our country is a signatory.

Thus, the Law on Cybersecurity not only does not limit the freedom and democracy of citizens, but it is also a solid legal corridor for people to feel secure to trade, do business and operate on cyberspace."	
"Article 8, the Law on ANM stipulates that it is strictly forbidden to use cyberspace to organize, operate, collude, instigate, bribe, deceive, entice, train, and train people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Vietnameseism; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of agencies. other agencies, organizations and individuals; ...

Or, performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, infiltration, hijacking, falsification, interruption, disruption, paralysis or destruction of information systems important to national security; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means; abusing or abusing ANM protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals or to avert profit;...

Ensuring information security in cyberspace

In order to ensure information security in cyberspace, the Law on ANM stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have the responsibility to: responsible for information authentication when users register for digital accounts; secure information and user accounts; provide user information to the ANM protection force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the ANM law;...

At the same time, domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data. data about personal information, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam.

The ANM Law also provides for the protection of children in cyberspace with specific laws: Information system owners, service providers on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in space the network is responsible for controlling information content on the information system or on services provided by enterprises so as not to cause harm to children, infringe upon children and children's rights; prevent the sharing and deletion of information with content harmful to children, infringing upon children and children's rights; promptly notify and coordinate with the ANM protection force under the Ministry of Public Security to handle.

The law also requires that agencies, organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace have the responsibility to coordinate with competent agencies in ensuring children's rights in cyberspace, and preventing information with content that is illegal. harming children in accordance with this law and the law on children. Agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers and other relevant individuals are responsible for ensuring children's rights and protecting children when participating in cyberspace in accordance with the law on children. em.

Important legal basis

The Law on ANM is very important and serves as a legal basis to protect national security; handle violations of the law such as against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; acts of distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; acts of spreading information harmful to organizations and individuals; acts of infringing upon social order and safety; acts of cyber attack, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism and related activities such as producing or putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, electronic media...

The enactment of the law is intended to protect information systems important to national security. This is an information system that in the event of a breakdown, intrusion, hijacking, falsification, interruption, shutdown, paralysis, attack or sabotage, will seriously infringe on ANM. The protection of ANM for this information system is assigned to the ANM protection force, which is directly the ANM force under the Ministry of Public Security, the Cyber ​​Warfare force under the Ministry of National Defense. To ensure compliance with the domestic legal system, the ANM Law also assigns the Government to specify the coordination between the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Government Cipher Committee, and other ministries. , functional branches in the appraisal, assessment, inspection, supervision, response and troubleshooting of information systemsnational security concerns.

In addition, the promulgation of the ANM Law also aims to prevent and combat cyber attacks. The ANM Law is the first legal document that defines the concept of ""cyber attack"". Accordingly, ""cyber attack is the act of using cyberspace, information technology or electronic means to sabotage or disrupt the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks or information systems. , information processing and control systems, databases, electronic media”. At the same time, the Law also stipulates specific groups of acts related to cyber attacks in Articles 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21; specifying specific groups of solutions to prevent and combat cyber attacks, specifying the specific responsibilities of functional agencies and information system owners.

According to the provisions of the Law on Security, Ministries, branches and provincial People's Committees are responsible for implementing security protection for information and information systems under their management and coordinate with the Ministry of Public Security in performing state management. on ANM of ministries, branches and localities."	
"At the international conference and exhibition on cyber safety (Vietnam Security Summit 2021), cybersecurity experts said that Vietnam is still a country with a high rate of malware infection and cyberattacks belonging to the group. At the highest level in the world, criminal activities in cyberspace also tend to increase.

The challenge is getting bigger and bigger

At the event, Mr. Sam Cheng Qingjun - Director of Public Relations and Government Affairs of Huawei shared that in 2020, the whole world will witness security holes and cyberattacks reaching new highs in number. and scale. Ransomware and data leaks keep popping up. According to the WHO, the number of cyberattacks in 2020 has increased fivefold compared to 2019, and according to a Gartner survey, 61% of technology executives say they will increase investment in networks and information security.

Vietnam in recent years is facing many challenges of information security risks from cyberspace. According to the Global Cybersecurity Index 2020 on the Global Cybersecurity Index, Vietnam ranks 25th out of 194 countries.

Data from the Cybersecurity Department (Ministry of Public Security) shows that over the past time, Vietnam has suffered from many attacks against national information systems, spreading false information to cheat and appropriate property. The most vulnerable devices are usually mobile phones, IoT.

In the past two years, due to the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic, users have gradually shifted their activities to the online cyberspace. Every day, an average Vietnamese person is online for nearly 7 hours on the internet.

This duration will continue to increase, which means that the risk of network insecurity will be higher. Statistics around the world show that there are 900 cyber attacks and 5 new malicious codes born every second. Detecting 40 more network security vulnerabilities every day...

Deputy Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Huy Dung said: ""These are the existential risks that we all face and this is likely to increase exponentially in the near future.""

Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security), said that cybersecurity challenges are becoming more and more serious.

In the context of the epidemic, many important information systems in Vietnam continue to become targets of hackers. These criminal groups take advantage of the complicated situation to attack the authorities by sending fake documents to spread malicious code or attack APT.

According to Mr. Cuong, in the first 6 months of 2021, the agency detected 1,555 attacks on websites/web portals with the domain .vn (with hacker messages inserted). Of which, 412 pages are under the management of State agencies.

He also noted some differences in the trend of cyberattacks in 2021 compared to before, such as the presence of malicious code infected IP addresses of domestic Internet service providers and customers.

In the first six months of this year, the Ministry of Public Security detected 2,551 cyber attacks, 5.4 million times of IP addresses of State agencies being hacked with 15 variants of malicious code.



Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong shared about the cybersecurity situation in 2021. (Photo: Organizing Committee)

In addition, on the internet, fake and malicious information is constantly being posted and shared widely. In the first and second quarters of 2021, when the epidemic was complicated, the Ministry of Public Security reviewed 221,000 news articles containing bad and untrue information posted on electronic information sites, forums, and blogs.

The police agency has handled 328 cases and prosecuted one case. Notably, the consequences of these fake news are much greater when they are spread quickly on social networks.

In addition, the activities of bad actors taking advantage of cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety are complicated in localities. Cybercriminals perform many sophisticated tricks such as creating fake websites and websites of agencies and businesses; set up fake BTS stations to block and redirect users' mobile subscribers to collect data...

Only in the first 9 months of 2021, the Ministry of Public Security coordinated with localities to prosecute 16 cases; cooperated with investigation agencies at all levels to prosecute 20 cases, sanction 150 administrative violations and summon and deter more than 300 people related to high-tech crimes.

In addition, the situation of leaking, buying and selling information and users' data also recorded complicated developments, typically the information disclosure of 35.6 million customers of a large corporation in Vietnam in the past year. including telecommunications service providers, many banks and insurance companies, real estate, tourism ... causing irritation and attracting great attention among the people, Colonel Cuong emphasized.

According to Mr. Tran Minh Quang, Director of the Center for Analysis and Sharing of Cybersecurity Risks (Viettel Cyber ​​Security Company), fraudulent domain names in 2021 have increased higher than the previous year with about 600-700 domain names. Quarterly.

Statistics in 2021, there are about 100 million times of Internet user data, business organizationsVietnamese enterprises are exposed. Along with that, more than 100,000 password accounts are for sale on the black market.

Attack trends in the near future

Predicting the trend of cyber attacks in 2021-2022, Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong said that hackers will increase targeted cyber attacks, spread malicious code, steal data to target important information systems. important. This is considered the top threat today.

The next trend is to attack mobile phones, IoT devices, modems to gain control and collect data.

Cloud computing is becoming more popular, but the shortage of security experts and solutions in this field also makes the threat in the cloud increasing.

Leaders of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention said that the explosion of technology with smart devices and AI will increase the risk of data being compromised.

In addition, users have to face bad and malicious information and tricks to cheat, appropriate property, gamble, virtual currency or do illegal business in cyberspace.

According to Mr. Tran Minh Quang, the seriousness of data leakage is increasing, especially in the coming time. The state of targeted attacks is still quite complicated and the tools are well-invested and used by hackers specifically for Vietnam.



Therefore, organizations need to change quickly, have effective response measures and focus on information security more than before. In particular, end users are increasingly facing sophisticated forms of phishing attacks.

Enterprises providing services to end users need to take measures to protect and prevent attacks for both businesses and users, especially banking and financial institutions.

According to experts, protecting critical information systems of agencies and businesses in the digital world requires not only investment in processes, equipment and people, but also timely capture of attack trends. , proactive prevention, to ensure the safety and sustainability of the information system./"	
"Vietnam suffers from many cyber attacks

On September 10 in Hanoi, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security) and Microsoft Corporation organized a symposium on ""Network security and safety - The key to cyberinformation security"". ensure stable operation and sustainable development for agencies, organizations and enterprises” in Vietnam.

According to authorities, by the end of January 2020, Vietnam had 68.17 million Internet users (accounting for 70% of the population), including more than 60 million people using social networks on mobile devices. , the number of registered mobile subscribers is up to 143 million subscribers.

According to the E-commerce Index 2020 (EBI) report of the Vietnam E-commerce Association (VECOM), the scale of e-commerce in 2019 reached about 11.5 billion USD; It is predicted that by the end of 2020 it will remain at over 30% and the e-commerce scale will exceed 15 billion USD, in the period 2015 - 2025 it will reach 29%, then the scale of Vietnam's e-commerce will reach the threshold. 43 billion USD and ranked third in ASEAN.

According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention, besides the positive aspects, Vietnam has been dealing with unpredictable risks, challenges and dangers. from cyberspace, directly threatening national security and social order and safety.

In 2019, Vietnam was the country with the highest rate of ransomware infection in the Asia-Pacific region. Vietnam also has the third highest rate of crypto-currency mining attacks in the region. The number of Drive-by attacks in Vietnam is also 2 times higher than the regional and global averages.

This is a worrying reality for Vietnamese organizations and businesses, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, when every day about 60,000 targeted phishing messages are recorded. include malicious attachments or malicious URLs related to COVID-19. Attackers impersonate major agencies and organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Ministry of Health to infiltrate users' inboxes. .

Criminal activities using high technology have increased in number, nature and severity with many new methods and tricks, directly affecting many areas of social life, posing many challenges. awareness for the prevention and struggle of functional forces.

Currently, the Law on Cybersecurity has been popularized and thoroughly grasped throughout the country and is the legal basis for effective application in the fight against cybercrime and high-tech crime.

Mr. Cuong said that under the Government Security Program (GSP), the Ministry of Public Security signed with Microsoft Corporation, over the past time, Microsoft Vietnam has actively shared data about cyberattack activities targeting the network system. information of 63 provinces and cities in Vietnam. In particular, the focus is on Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City which are the places where the country's highest number of malware infections are attacked; Currently, there are over 3.8 million IP addresses in Vietnam infected with dozens of lines of dangerous malware.

Important data source

Talking about the initial results of the Government Security (GPS) cooperation program signed between the Ministry of Public Security and Microsoft Corporation in December 2019, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and Crime Prevention using high technology for On average, Microsoft provides the Department with about 3GB of data every day about malicious code activities as well as other security risks in Vietnam.

Based on this data source, the Department conducted an analysis and showed that from March to August 2020, up to 4.2 million IP addresses in Vietnam were infected with malicious code and performed 7.8 billion times. connect up to 16.7 thousand source IP addresses of various types of malware.



According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention, Vietnam has been dealing with unpredictable risks and dangers from cyberspace. (Photo: Minh Son/Vietnam+)

The report also gives details of malware classification, infection status as well as changes in frequency scale, attack trends over time and provinces and localities of Vietnam. In particular, the Department's expert demonstrated a test on the GSP system of security risk analysis with a specific IP address of an enterprise, showing what types of malware this address is infected with, the frequency of outbound connections to the malware's source IP addresses, and attack behavior changes over time.

According to the Vietnamese expert, the data from the GSP program has great potential to help Vietnam do better in cyber security. In which, helping to improve defense capacity, understanding of security systems in Vietnam and assisting in warning of risks and security incidents for the government and businesses are just a few initial applications. .

Mr. Pham The Truong, General Director of Microsoft Vietnam said: “The cybersecurity challenge has become a global issue, requiring the cooperation of many countries, organizations, and organizations.enterprise. With community responsibility, Microsoft is willing to share and cooperate with Vietnam in improving security defense capacity so that Vietnam can digitize and promote the safe development of the industrial revolution 4.0.

In parallel with providing an assessment of the current state of network security in Vietnam, Microsoft also shared about new approaches and solutions in the field of security in the context that users and businesses increasingly use it. many mobile apps, cloud solutions and outsourced apps.

Prominent among these are new generation security solutions built on cloud computing, continuously aggregating and exploiting big data from various sources and applying artificial intelligence (AI). to shorten the analysis time for anomalous behavior and highly automate the implementation of response responses to minimize damage when there is a risk or security incident...

""Defensive"" how?

At the event, an expert from the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention recommended that agencies, organizations and businesses actively research and invest in technical infrastructure and solutions. appropriate technological measures, ensuring information safety and security, strengthening the ability to prevent and combat cyber attacks; raise awareness about information and data security for all officials, employees and users, especially the team working on information safety and security.

Organizations need to develop and implement a strategy to ensure information security and safety in a methodical and appropriate manner; formulating and implementing specific and clear regulations and policies to ensure safety, information security, and network security; proactively review and strictly control the installation of equipment, use of legal and copyrighted software, and meet the standards of information security and safety.

Actively cooperate and coordinate with the Ministry of Public Security's specialized force in cybersecurity protection and high-tech crime prevention and control in ensuring information security, preventing cyber attacks, and responding to countermeasures. Troubleshooting network security incidents, combating crimes using high technology.

Along with that, the units must strictly comply with the provisions of the law on assurance of safety, information security, and network security, especially the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity and the guiding documents on the implementation of the law on security. onion; actively research related contents to clearly see their obligations and responsibilities and related subjects, thereby contributing to ensuring security, information safety, network security, towards building a safe environment. Safe and healthy internet."	
"As noted by Bkav, Vietnam's cybersecurity landscape in the past 12 months has many ""hot spots."" Hundreds of billions of dong lost by cyber-attacks related to banks; cybersecurity risks from social media trends; Many organizations and businesses are targeted in a new way…

In addition, a survey by Bkav in December indicated that in 2020, the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users exceeded 1 billion USD (VND 23.9 trillion).

Cybercriminals take advantage of COVID-19

In 2020, with the outbreak of COVID-19, a series of businesses, agencies and organizations switched to working remotely. Online working software is searched and downloaded wildly. Many units are forced to open the system to the Internet so that employees can access and work remotely… This creates an environment for bad guys to exploit vulnerabilities, attack, and steal information.

In the past year, a series of large-scale cyber attacks took place globally, typically the Foxconn factory was attacked by hackers, demanding $ 34 million in data ransom; or 267 million Facebook user information for sale; Intel was attacked by hackers, causing 20GB of confidential data to leak...

According to Bkav's observations, in Vietnam, many large e-commerce sites, some online delivery platforms with many users, have been hacked and data stolen.

When working remotely, organizations and businesses need to establish a secure connection environment by equipping solutions such as SSL, VPN, etc. to evaluate system security, evaluate software before publishing it to the internet; install anti-virus software, firewall, monitoring system... regularly update operating system patches; equipped with strong user authentication methods such as digital signatures.

Individual users need to be on high alert when working remotely; ensure a safe connection environment by installing anti-virus software; do not download and install software of unknown origin; regularly update software and operating system patches; Do not share or access unknown links.

Bank transaction attack

In 2020 alone, there are many cases of hackers taking over banking-related cyber security attacks, in which mainly the cases of stealing users' transaction OTP codes. The main method of hackers is to trick users into installing spyware on their phones to steal OTP messages and make illegal transactions.

On average, Bkav's virus monitoring system has detected more than 15,000 spyware on mobile phones every month. Typically, the case of VN84App, a software that collects OTP messages for banking transactions up to billions of dong, has infected thousands of smartphones in Vietnam.

Experts recommend that users only install software from official application repositories; permanently install banking protection software on your phone.

Hidden behind social media trends

Social media trends such as ""see how your face has changed,"" ""see how you have changed in the last 10 years""... are the ""hot trends"" of 2020.



In 2020, the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users exceeded 1 billion USD (23.9 trillion VND). (Source: Bkav)

These types of trends are interesting but potentially dangerous to users because when participating in online trends, users ""voluntarily"" provide their photos and personal information. Bad guys will collect this data for the purpose of profiteering and fraud.

Supply chain attack

The ""supply chain"" attack aka Suppy Chain Attack is becoming a prominent trend. Instead of targeting the victim directly, hackers attack the software manufacturers used by the victim, injecting malicious code into the software right out of the factory. Once the victim downloads or updates the software to a new version from the manufacturer, the malicious code will be activated, the hacker can easily successfully infiltrate the strictly protected systems.

In Vietnam, at the end of December 2020, Bkav's network security monitoring system also recorded a similar attack aimed at infiltrating important agencies and organizations.

As a precaution, software vendors need to develop and implement secure product development and delivery processes; equipped with solutions to protect and monitor the system to detect abnormal behavior.

Explosion of stealth malware W32.Fileless

A form of targeted attack using stealth malware has broken out in 2020. According to Bkav's statistics, at least 800,000 computers in Vietnam have been infected with this type of malware in 2020, doubled. compared to 2019.

Mr. Vu Ngoc Son, Vice President in charge of Anti-Malware of Bkav said: “W32.Fileless makes antivirus software manufacturers have to change immediately if they don't want their products to become soon. useless. Many anti-virus software that only scans suspicious files will not be effective in stopping Fileless.”

Forecast 2021: Attacking transactions on mobile is still a hot spot

Currently, Vietnam has avoided direct and severe impacts from COVID-19, butI am used to working remotely, exchanging information via network will continue to be maintained and become more and more popular. In the world, the global pandemic is in another, complicated and unpredictable development, unintentionally ""promoting"" the criminal activities of hackers, leading to data encryption and blackmail attacks on a large scale. great. Therefore, users need to be vigilant and prevent network attacks.

According to Bkav's expert, transaction attacks on mobile phones continue to take place. Fraud on Facebook may increase because regulations restricting travel between countries will lead to a great demand for transactions, sending goods, sending money online, many bad guys take advantage of this situation to cheat. island, take money.

“Stealth malicious code, data encryption malware, spyware that tracks users and steals information will be the types of malicious code raging in 2021,” the Bkav representative added."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was officially passed at the 5th Session of the XIV National Assembly. Not only is the legal framework necessary in the 4.0 technology era, the Law on Cybersecurity is also an urgent requirement to ensure a safe environment against the constant threats in cyberspace both in terms of technique and content. information. In addition, the Cybersecurity Law still ensures the freedom of speech of citizens, does not hinder internet and social network users.

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles. Clause 3, Article 4 of the Law clearly stipulates: To closely combine the task of protecting network security and protecting information systems important for national security with the task of socio-economic development, ensuring the right of people, citizens' rights, creating conditions for agencies, organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace.

Some Internet users, especially young people, expressed concern at the information that, when the Cybersecurity Law takes effect, popular services on the Internet such as Facebook and Google will be blocked, not allowed to be accessed. used in Vietnam. There is also concern that personal information and freedom of expression on social networking sites will be affected. However, this is absolutely not true, on the contrary, the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law also protect users against bad information and malicious information.

In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also prohibits the use of cyberspace to commit acts against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals; prescribe sanctions for handling violations of the law on network security.

In fact, in our country, many users of social networking sites are too ""easy"", if not ""light-hearted"" for information shared and distributed on social networks. Just reading the information, many people immediately shared without verifying the authenticity of the information. This has created opportunities for hostile forces to increase activities against our Party and State in cyberspace through fabricated and distorted information. Cyber ​​attacks in Vietnam are also becoming more and more dangerous, affecting security and order, social safety and the country's socio-economic development goals. From January 1, 2019, when the Law on Cybersecurity officially takes effect, all violations of the law on cyberspace in Vietnam will be handled in accordance with the law./."	
"According to the previous revision,"" this year, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) once again made biased, unobjective and completely baseless assessments when classifying Vietnam as a country ""with less freedom of the press.""

The content of RSF's assessment is not only nothing new, still repeating the old thinking of previous years, but also shows that this organization has deliberately ignored the reality of ensuring freedom of speech and freedom. press in Vietnam.

It must be affirmed that the State of Vietnam always pays attention to protecting and promoting basic human rights, including the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press and the right to access information. This is specified in the Constitution and related legal documents, and is implemented in the actual political, economic and social life of Vietnam.

Ensuring all citizens have the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press within the framework of the law is the consistent policy of the Party and State of Vietnam. For many years, the State of Vietnam has always strived to perfect the legal system in order to create conditions for promoting and protecting citizens' basic rights to freedom of expression.

The 2013 Constitution clearly states that “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and access to information…The implementation of these provisions is prescribed by law.”

The 2016 revised Press Law and the 2016 Law on Access to Information also clearly state the State's responsibility in creating favorable conditions for citizens to exercise freedom of the press and freedom of expression in the press; ensuring that all citizens are equal and not discriminated against in exercising the right to access information; ensure the provision of accurate, complete, timely, transparent and convenient information for citizens.

Article 11 of the 2016 revised Press Law clearly states that citizens have the right to: “Speak out on the situation of the country and the world; participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for organizations and individuals.""

Obviously, the 2016 revised Press Law and the 2016 Law on Access to Information are legally compatible with international documents on human rights, freedom of expression, and freedom of the press. Regrettably, RSF deliberately did not know the legal documents that have been put into practice for many years in Vietnam.

Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of information in Vietnam are also clearly demonstrated through the diverse development of types and richness of content of the Vietnamese press.

Currently, Vietnam has about 41,000 employees engaged in journalism, 779 press agencies (including 142 newspapers, 612 magazines, 25 independent electronic press agencies), 72 agencies licensed to operate radio and television with a total of 87 radio channels and 193 television channels.

Meanwhile, the waves of major international media agencies such as CNN, BBC, TV5, NHK, DW, Australia Network, KBS, Bloomberg... are easily accessible in Vietnam.

Over the years, the press in Vietnam has demonstrated the right to freedom of expression and the right to information. The press has made important contributions to the construction of socialism and national defense; always actively fight against false and negative manifestations in society, contributing an important voice to promoting the strength of the great national unity bloc, consolidating and perfecting socialist democracy. , and is also an important bridge with international friends.

Through the press, the people also have a forum to express their thoughts, feelings and aspirations for the Party and State, and at the same time criticize and propose enthusiastic opinions to the Party and State.

[Vietnam always supports and ensures the exercise of press freedom]

An undeniable fact about ensuring freedom of information and freedom of the press in Vietnam is the international media, when it comes to the ""secrets"" to help Vietnam effectively control the outbreaks. During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the element ""transparent and clear information"" has been repeatedly mentioned.

Press agencies are provided with timely and complete information about infections as well as measures that the government is taking to prevent the disease.

Many foreign newspapers also highly appreciate the effective use of social media and information technology by the Vietnamese Government to update the epidemic situation and advise the people to comply with the regulations. epidemic prevention measures.

Journalist David Hutt specializing in Southeast Asian politics also affirmed that when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, the Vietnamese Party and State were very transparent and open in sharing and updating data on the COVID-19 situation. -19. That is one of the reasons why Vietnamese people put their trust in the government's anti-epidemic measures.

RSF has also deliberately ignored the fact that Vietnam is recorded as one of the countries with the highest Internet growth and usage rates in the world with more than 68 million Internet users (accounting for 70% of the population).

Information technology and social networks have beenwidely used in daily life in Vietnam, allowing people to access information and express their views and opinions.

In the administrative apparatus from central to local levels in Vietnam, more and more agencies and organizations use social networks to work, handle administrative procedures, keep in touch with the people, capture and promptly settle the legitimate thoughts and aspirations of the people.

The exercise of the right to freedom of the Internet and social networks is always placed within the legal framework, thereby ensuring network security, preventing and stopping activities that take advantage of social networks to violate Vietnamese law in order to provoke, divide society, create excuses for outside forces to interfere in our country.

The 2016 revised Press Law also states: “Press and journalists operate within the legal framework and are protected by the State; No organization or individual may restrict or obstruct the press and journalists from operating. No one must abuse the right to freedom of the press, the right to freedom of expression in the press to infringe upon the interests of the State, the collective and the citizens.""

In Vietnam, no one is tried or arrested just for expressing opinions or protecting human rights. Only those who take advantage of freedom of speech and press freedom to infringe upon the interests of the State, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, violate the law; Distributing fake news, ""bad news"" in order to destabilize the country's situation, cause political insecurity, social order and safety, and confuse public opinion... will be handled according to law.

This is also a measure of the State of Vietnam to protect people against fabricated, untrue information, inciting hatred..., which means ensuring the right to access accurate information for the public. people. That is consistent with international law and the laws of many countries.

In fact, it is not only in Vietnam that there are some sanctions against acts of abusing freedom of speech and freedom of the press to violate the law, but also in many countries such as the US, Germany, France, and South Korea. , Singapore, ... all have laws and provisions that strictly handle such acts.

Obviously, the realistic picture of guaranteeing freedom of speech and freedom of the press in Vietnam is an objective reality that no one can deny. RSF has deliberately denied the efforts of the Party and State of Vietnam in ensuring and respecting the people's right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press and access to information, making false assessments. and very illogical.

RSF's allegations show that this organization is using tricks to distort and distort the truth about the press freedom situation in Vietnam with bad intentions. It is RSF that is going against the principle of journalists to respect and not be allowed to distort or distort the truth"	
"Distortion and ridiculousness about the situation of democracy and human rights in Vietnam

The distorted and ridiculous view that politicize all issues is easy to see in the counter tactics of hostile forces about the democracy and human rights situation in Vietnam. They compulsively insert the moral element into legal terminology, typically the word they often chant: “prisoner of conscience”, reflecting eclectic, fallacious, unethical thinking in the absence of it. legal basis. Because, in the judicial system of Vietnam and other countries around the world, there is no term ""prisoner of conscience"". In fact, the so-called ""prisoner of conscience"" is just a trick to promote, support, and easily interfere in the protection and incitement of objects to oppose and distort policies, guidelines and policies. books of our Party and State. Public and strict trials of opposing subjects, such as: Pham Chi Dung, Nguyen Tuong Thuy, Pham Chi Thanh, Can Thi Theu, Pham Thi Doan Trang, ... are the necessary work of a family. sovereign state, in order to prevent illegal acts that are dangerous to society. Before justice, these subjects openly accepted the verdict of the trial panel with their crimes. However, a number of foreign organizations that have no goodwill towards Vietnam have issued statements criticizing the Vietnamese Courts and expressed their support and encouragement for those who have been tried and publicly judged on their conduct. commit crime. This is actually a very wrong legal approach and blatantly misrepresents the human rights situation in Vietnam.

They also argued that: Vietnam considers human rights with too broad a connotation, favoring social norms, and disregarding the guarantee of specific natural rights of individuals. They deliberately ignore an obvious fact that the guarantee of the specific natural rights of individuals must be placed in relation to the interests of society within the framework of the law. Not only in Vietnam, but most countries in the world approach and practice universal human rights not in general and abstract, but in the natural relationship between specific individual rights and rights of social groups. association directly related to that individual. Just based on some unverified and politically hostile information towards Vietnam to describe the situation of democracy and human rights would be a ridiculous view. This is most evident in the global human rights reports from 2013 by Human Rights Watch (HRW).

Enemy forces in the name of universal human rights try to promote Western human rights. They consider themselves Western culture as the center, consider Western human rights to govern universal human rights around the world and higher than national sovereignty. This way in the name is dominated by the operating funds of individuals and civil organizations under the market mechanism, which seriously violates the international conventions and principles on the prohibition of interference in the internal affairs of the countries. Other countries. Typically, HRW's reports on human rights are often reacted and criticized by many countries.

Each country, territory and culture due to differences in historical circumstances, traditional values, development levels, political regimes, etc., should have a different approach to universal human rights. . Mr. Lee Kuan Yew, the late Prime Minister of Singapore, once asserted: nowhere in the world are these rights allowed to be exercised without limitations, because blind application of these ideas can lead can go towards the destruction of organized society. Former US Ambassador to Vietnam Pete Peterson said that it is impossible to assess a country's human rights situation on the standard of 100% satisfaction. The United States, like no other country, can meet that need; a 100% human rights satisfaction score is not possible in one country.

Over the years, ensuring human rights in Vietnam has been appreciated and appreciated by many international leaders, politicians, observers and tourists. Journalist specializing in Southeast Asian politics, David Hutt told BBC News that the Communist Party of Vietnam acted responsibly and put the people first. In addition, Vietnam's success in turning risks into threats has resulted in dual goals in: prevention and control of the Covid-19 pandemic; at the same time, socio-economic development, aiming to ""leave no one behind"" has received many good comments and evaluations from politicians, experts and international media. It is a living proof of the Party and State's respect, protection and promotion of human rights.

Vietnam does not have freedom of speech and suppresses social networks - Distorted, ridiculous claims

Enemy, reactionary, and politically opposed forces try to advertise and distort Vietnam to prevent freedom of speech and expression of opinions, and are enemies of the freedom of the press online. They criticized the government for arbitrarily arresting and prosecuting dissidents; censor, close websites, make criminal laws; the government tightens and restricts the rights to freedom of expression, freedom of association, peaceful groups, freedom of movement and freedom of rent.teacher, etc. They misunderstand about the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press, leading to the belief that these rights are absolute, in order to provoke, boycott and retaliate fiercely, including smearing and opposing the social system. especially through ""dirty"" livestream on social networks, etc. Since then, promoting the establishment of a number of organizations in the name of literature and journalism, such as: ""Independent Literature"", ""Independent Journalists Association"", ""Reporters Without Borders"", ""The 88 Project""1 ... to oppose the regime, distort the State, arrest and imprison independent journalists, fight for the so-called freedom of speech. Giving a misleading ranking of press freedom in Vietnam; pressuring for the release of those arrested by the authorities for violating Vietnamese law, which they call the arrest and imprisonment of ""independent journalists"", ""bloggers"", etc. These are distorting and ridiculous claims, because: Respecting, protecting and promoting human rights, including the right to freedom of speech, and freedom of the press are the consistent and consistent views of the Party and State. our country. With a view to upholding the role of the press as a forum for the people, as a bridge between the Party, the State and the people, for the people to present their thoughts, feelings and aspirations. Through it, the press performs the function of social criticism, proposes enthusiastic opinions to the Party and State, and guides public opinion in the process of building the Party's guidelines, policies, and laws. of the State, contributing to promoting economic, cultural and social development, ensuring national defense, security, social order and safety. Implementing that view, the State of Vietnam pays special attention to building and perfecting the legal system to ensure freedom of speech, freedom of the press and freedom of information. The right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and the right to access information are regulated by the Constitution (2013), the Press Law (2016) and the Law on Access to Information (2016) stipulating the responsibility of the State, create favorable conditions for citizens to exercise their rights to freedom of the press and freedom of speech; ensuring that all citizens are equal and not discriminated against in exercising the right to access information; ensure the provision of accurate, complete, timely, transparent and convenient information for citizens. In particular, newspapers are not censored before printing, transmission and broadcasting.

Currently, Vietnam has about 41,000 employees working in the field of journalism, with 779 press agencies (including: 142 newspapers, 612 magazines, 25 independent electronic press agencies), 72 agencies The agency is licensed to operate radio and television with a total of 87 radio channels and 193 television channels. As of June 2021, the number of internet users is nearly 70 million, an increase of 0.8% in the period 2020 - 2021 (accounting for more than 70% of the population); the number of people using social networks is nearly 76 million people, an increase of nearly 10 million people within 1 year (equivalent to 73.7% of the population). Vietnam is rated as the country with the 12th highest number of internet users worldwide and sixth out of 35 countries/regions in Asia.

On the other hand, the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of information is not an absolute right but a limited right. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of information are considered fundamental principles for a democracy, even as ""oxygen"" in a democratic and developed society; but not recognized by the international community as an absolute right. International documents on human rights, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 (Article 29), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966 (Article 19) all confirm: exercising the right to freedom of expression comes with special obligations and responsibilities, which may be subject to certain limitations set forth in law and are necessary to respect the rights or reputations of others; protect national security or public order, the health or morals of society. The laws of most countries in the world limit this right, such as: in the US, the Penal Code (Article 2.385, Chapter 115) provides for restrictions on the right to freedom of expression; In Germany, the Cybersecurity Law 2015 (amended in 2018), stipulates that social networking services can be fined up to 50 million euros if there is a case of users insulting, causing hatred, or spreading the word. spreading fake news, etc.

In order to approach international human rights standards, Vietnam has developed and perfected the legal framework to guarantee the right to freedom of expression, the principle that the press and journalists operate within the legal framework. protected by law; strictly prohibit all acts of abusing press freedom and freedom of expression in the press to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and citizens. All acts of violating the law shall be handled by competent state agencies in accordance with the order and procedures prescribed by law, ensuring publicity, transparency, right people, right crimes, right laws, and not wronging people. innocent and not guilty. Simultaneously, monitor, survey, evaluate and promptly adjust, supplement and perfect the legal system and policies in line with the rules governing cultural behavior in daily life.social community, especially in cyberspace. The above fact has exposed the one-sidedness and distortion of freedom of speech in Vietnam."	
"Elements of political opportunism and hostile forces have made false accusations that: ""Vietnam has deprived the people of their right to freedom of expression and freedom of information""; “serious violation of press freedom”… These are very reactionary statements aimed at jamming information, slandering, blatantly distorting the freedom of information and press of Vietnamese citizens.

In fact, in Vietnam there is no ""expropriation"" at all. The State of Vietnam has promulgated the Law on Press, the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Access to Information and other relevant laws and codes, clearly stipulating the freedom of the press and the right to freedom of speech in the press. citizen; press organization and activities...

Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, meetings, associations, and demonstrations. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Article 11, the 2016 revised Press Law clearly states that citizens have the right to: “Speak out on the situation of the country and the world; participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for organizations and individuals”.

In particular, in the face of the increasingly strong development of science and technology, the State of Vietnam has always paid attention to the development of the internet, which is an important tool to better ensure the right to freedom of speech and freedom of speech. by the press. Currently, our country is in the top 20 countries with the highest number of internet users in the world, with nearly 70% of users, much higher than the world average (more than 51%). Through electronic information sites and social networks, people can freely express their opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts such as Facebook, YouTube, Viber, Zalo… The expression of each person's freedom of speech has never been so easy and contagious as it is today. The people can contribute ideas to draft documents submitted to Party congresses, comment on draft laws, regimes and policies, etc. However, the State of Vietnam also resolutely punishes. organizations and individuals take advantage of this issue to commit acts of spreading bad news, distorting, smearing, raiding, forming factions against the Party, State and the socialist regime in our country.

Distorting the situation of freedom of the press and freedom of speech in Vietnam is an old trick and trick, but now it has been adjusted very subtly and cunningly, always being used by extremist organizations and individuals. frequently used political opportunities.

In the face of blatant misrepresentation of political opportunistic elements, hostile forces, party committees and authorities at all levels, it is necessary to do a good job of propaganda to raise people's awareness and responsibility in using on the internet, equip themselves with the skills of self-screening information, fostering the formation of positive and cultural habits of action and behavior in the online environment. Further strengthen the Party's leadership over press activities and ensure the right to information of all citizens before the law. Continue to study, firmly grasp the press law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press of each citizen. On that basis, the process of exercising their rights and obligations in the field of information, press and speech must comply with the law."	
"This is a very meaningful law project, which is an important legal basis to protect national security; maintaining social order and safety, and sanctioning law-breaking acts in cyberspace.

The Law on Cybersecurity will further tighten activities in the network environment by prohibiting acts that cause network insecurity. This requires each internet and social network user to understand their rights and obligations when participating in activities in the cyberspace.

Accordingly, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates 06 groups of acts that are strictly prohibited to be performed in cyberspace: (1) Using cyberspace, information technology, and electronic means to violate national security and order Social security; Activities against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Distorting history, insulting religion, discriminating on gender, racist; Inciting riots, disrupting security or disrupting public order; Misinformation, humiliation, slander; Infringing upon economic management order, prostitution, social evils, human trafficking and instigating, enticing and inciting others to commit crimes. In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also prohibits (2) Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; causing incidents, attacks, infiltration, hijacking, falsification, interruption, disruption, paralysis or destruction of information systems important to national security; (3) Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, internet networks,...; (4) Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; (5) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations, personal or for personal gain…



Besides the consensus of the majority of people, there are still a few concerns about internet freedom due to the lack of proper and complete understanding of this newly enacted Law. They are concerned because they misunderstand that the Cybersecurity Law limits their personal freedom in cyberspace, while in fact the Law regulates prohibited behaviors that Facebook users often commit such as false information. truth, causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers; giving false information, fabricating, insulting human dignity, etc., according to 29 articles of the Penal Code, they will be handled. Clause 1 - Article 17 stipulates that users of social networks are not allowed to do: ""Put on cyberspace information of personal secrets, family secrets, and private life contrary to the law."" . The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information; there are no provisions to impede freedom of speech. In fact, over the past time, many false information has spread at a dizzying speed on social networks, greatly affecting socio-economic activities, causing bad public opinion among the people. A lot of false information but spread quickly is because a part of people, especially young people, are only interested in sharing ""hot"" information to attract the attention of friends. but rarely understand the true nature of that information. In addition, they do not understand the consequences of sharing false information, how harmful information will affect the security situation, politics, economy, society ... of the country. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is extremely necessary, meeting the inevitable requirements of state management while still being consistent with the reality of social life; at the same time creating a legal basis for international integration. Research shows that, in just the past 6 years, 23 countries around the world have promulgated over 40 legal documents on cybersecurity, such as the US, Japan, UK, Germany, France, etc. The Netherlands, Canada, Australia, Czech Republic, China, Korea... The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity will ensure that our country's cybersecurity work has a certain conformity with international practices and ensure the conditions for international integration on network security.

Thus, in general, the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity are necessary and follow the general trend in the world on legal regulations to ensure network security; meet practical requirements to proactively prevent, detect, prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security, ensuring that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, order and safety. society, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; especially, do not hinder the freedom of the internet, the healthy freedom of speech and the protection of the law of the Vietnamese people.

However, in order to prevent misrepresentation and misunderstanding, to distort the positive meaning of the Cybersecurity Law, to avoid abuse and to help better awareness and compliance with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, all levels , branches, the Fatherland Front and socio-political organizations and unions, especially schools, information and communication agencies, newspapers and publishing houses, need to strengthen propaganda and dissemination of content, The meaning and role of The Cybersecurity Law has reached a wide range of people in many far-reaching ways in order to help officials, party members, union members, members, students, and people of all strata be fully aware of the importance of the law. the importance and necessity of the Law on Cybersecurity, contributing to gradually bringing the Law on Cybersecurity to life.

The advent of the internet and social networks has posed new challenges, humanity has to face a complex information system such as: Information difficult to verify, false information, malicious information about morality, lifestyle, and mental abuse against people. For individuals, the internet and social networks are tools that bad guys can use to spread false information in order to cheat to appropriate property, terrorize the spirit, threaten to post private information online. … For the state, the internet and social networks are powerful weapons that hostile forces and reactionaries at home and abroad have been, are and will be taking advantage of more and more thoroughly for propaganda and distorting activities in the future. , against the regime. After carrying out many activities to put pressure, but still could not prevent the National Assembly from passing the Law on Cybersecurity, especially when the Government announced to collect opinions on the Draft Decree on implementing the Law on Cybersecurity, the following positions could not be stopped. The more hostile and reactionary forces are, the more aggressively they use many tricks to create a wave of protests, obstruct the implementation and demand the abolition of this Law. They spread on social networks, claiming that the Law on Cybersecurity ""especially infringes on private space"", ""violats freedom of speech, press, internet"", ""violates human rights"". Many Western news agencies, newspapers and many websites with servers located abroad intentionally distort and obstruct the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law. A series of reactionary organizations and individuals at home and abroad have set up websites and blogs, and used many facebook accounts to mold and mix real and fake information, cut pictures, spread rumors, and attract attention. reader's curiosity. In particular, during the time of important political events of the country, bad elements through facebook, zalo, youtube... posted and shared a lot of distorted information to lash out, satirize, cross sculpting events taking place throughout the country; smearing, fabricating, and discrediting the image of comrades leading the Party and State, leaders of agencies in the government system, causing skepticism among the people, and dividing the great national unity bloc. The hostile and reactionary forces have chosen social networks as a new ""front"", with full of cunning and sinister tricks to strengthen their resistance against our state. And it is reprehensible, when some people, because of ignorance, intentionally or unintentionally abet hostile and reactionary forces. It can be said that there has never been a time when hostile and reactionary forces had a methodical and detailed plan to distort and eliminate any law like the Law on Cybersecurity.

The negative reaction to the Cybersecurity Law of hostile forces, political opportunists, anti-regime and our State is also understandable, because for them, this is a legal tool. deprive them of important weapons that they can use to accomplish their goals of subverting, overthrowing, and transforming our regime into an alien ""democracy"" and ""human rights"" path. For the State and our people, the promulgation and strict implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is one of the important guarantees and an effective measure to ensure human rights, legitimate rights and interests of citizens. This is a legal weapon to prevent and handle abuses and abuses, protect national security, and maintain social order and safety. Therefore, each citizen needs to be alert, properly identify, to eliminate false, hostile and distorting views about the Cybersecurity Law, and ensure that the Law on Cybersecurity is effectively implemented. To do so, you must learn about the Law on Cybersecurity (maybe on Google) so that you do not violate or be taken advantage of by others to commit bad acts. In particular, do not abuse social networks to post, share, like, comment on websites, articles of unknown origin, false information that confuses public opinion and complicates the situation. In the case of detecting that someone has posted content that distorts, opposes the state, or spreads false rumors on social networks, people should immediately notify the agency, local government, police agency. where the incident occurred in order to take timely measures.

Every cadre, civil servant and public employee should be aware of the plots and tricks to spread false and reactionary information of individuals and organizations that intend to destroy our Party and State so as not to be linked by them. , inciting or enticing to participate in illegal activities. Each social network user must protect themselves against the negatives, recognize the duality of social networks, avoid inadvertently abetting anti-destructive activities, negative, objectionable behaviors, unethical behavior on social media. In particular, people need to be very careful when accessing information posted from unofficial, fake, foreign-origin sites, or by reactionary individuals, elements, or organizations. yesanti-Vietnamese activities (some websites and facebook accounts of typical enemies and reactionaries such as: RFA - Radio Free Asia; BBC News Vietnamese, VOA Vietnamese, facebook VOATiengViet, Youtobe VOATiengViet ; Fanpages: Viet Tan, Catholic Youth, Good News for the Poor, Patriotic Diary, Club of Free Journalists, New Horizons Media, Brotherhood for Democracy, Hoang Sa FC, Portrait of Rights page force, newspaper officer, facebook Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh (ie, Mother Mushroom), Hoang Ngoc Dieu, Le Cong Dinh, Nguyen Huy Vu, ...). When accessing negative information on social networks, actively search for official press and information sites to compare and contrast. If the source, motive and purpose of the information and the person sharing the information cannot be identified, it is necessary to stay calm and careful not to comment or spread information. In addition, it is necessary to build a positive attitude to always seek and share good and useful information, limit reading negative, malicious and unknown information. Everyone needs to know how to take advantage and use social networks properly and effectively, turn social networks into a means and a useful channel to expand knowledge, together build a social network culture environment. a healthy society, avoid being influenced by virtual information, effectively contribute to preventing and stopping wrong and hostile thoughts and views."	
"From the activities of the Clean Newspaper group, it is necessary to study and identify tricks to take advantage of the right to freedom of speech to infringe upon the interests of the State and oppose the government. And propose effective solutions to fight and strictly handle this dangerous crime.

Violations of the law of the ""Clean Newspaper"" group

In May 2021, the Investigation Security Agency of Can Tho City Police transferred the file to the People's Procuracy of the same level to propose the prosecution of defendants Truong Chau Huu Danh, Nguyen Thanh Nha (SN 1980), Doan Kien Giang (SN 1986). , living in Ho Chi Minh City) and Nguyen Phuoc Trung Bao (born in 1982, living in Da Nang) about abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations. individual.

During the settlement of the case, on July 6, the Can Tho City Investigation Security Agency prosecuted the accused and banned Le The Thang from leaving the residence (SN 1982, living in Hanoi City). ) investigating acts of abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

121-1626417107.jpg
 The defendants (from top to bottom, from left):  Truong Chau Huu Danh, Nguyen Thanh Nha, Nguyen Phuoc Trung Bao and Doan Kien Giang.
These are all members of the ""Clean Newspaper"" group - an organization that writes and publishes many articles and video clips on ""hot"" topics of public interest and posted on social networks such as the Ho Duy case. Hai, Western drought, land dispute in Dong Tam article about Truong Ton Duc Thang, issue of export ban during the Covid-19 epidemic, coercion at Gia Trang Quan (Ho Chi Minh City).... Many articles, posted on the personal accounts of the defendants are hidden under the name of ""clean journalism"", but the essence of the articles is to orient public opinion in a negative direction.

Particularly for defendant Truong Chau Huu Danh, the Investigation Security Agency collected 31 articles related to Can Tho City and 29 videos posted publicly on Facebook, defendant Danh admitted that the articles reflected were false. real. In addition to using personal Facebook to commit crimes in Can Tho, defendant Danh along with defendants Bao, Nha and Giang took advantage of press freedoms to write and post on the ""Clean Newspaper"" Fanpage. and Group “Cleaning Newspapers”. Many Fanpage articles ""Clean newspaper"" and Grourp ""Clean newspaper"" - established by the accused, have untrue content, lack of verification, and are subjective inference.

Hiding under the name of a group of people who dare to ""frankly"" share about ""hot"" issues of public opinion, but the nature of the articles posted by the target group contains unfounded comments and fallacious words. , misrepresented with bad intentions. The trick used by the subjects was mainly to attribute the incident based on emotional inference, lack of objective evidence...

So what is the purpose behind the guise of free speech of this target group?

Clean newspaper is not the first organization to be prosecuted for abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State. Like the previous common motif of many political opportunistic, domestic and international forces, they took the name of ""democracy, human rights"", freedom of speech, and freedom of the press to transform information patchy and dishonest information aimed at slandering, fabricating, and lowering the role, position and prestige of the Party and State. The depth of these acts is to form and gather forces to oppose and overthrow the government.

Identify countermeasures

Political opportunistic groups such as ""Clean Newspaper"" determined that they must ""infiltrate"" the ideology and politics of cadres, party members and the masses in order to achieve results. Therefore, the main tricks used by the subjects to propagate against the Party and State are through images, articles, video clips on social networking sites (Facebook, Youtube, BBC Vietnamese.com...) with a motif. , like:

image002-1626417144.jpg
Recently, there have been many acts of abusing freedom of speech to distort and oppose the Party and State in cyberspace with increasingly sophisticated and dangerous tricks.
Firstly, they exploit and use information in the press reflecting negative issues, bureaucracy, corruption, evils in society... to publish in the direction of one-way information, in order to influence the reader's mind.

In fact, no State is absolutely perfect, because the State is an organization formed and developed by people, so is the State. This model will still have shortcomings such as corrupt bureaucracy, moral degradation of a few leading cadres… However, that does not mean that a few ""worms"" are equated with common shortcomings. of a political system. History and current reality have proven that: the leadership of our Party and the operation of the State apparatus have led the country to overcome the great storms of the times. Along with that, the Party and State always strive to build a society that is fair, democratic and civilized and puts people at the center of all development efforts.

Second, political opportunistic forces have focused on exploiting information aboutg shortcomings, limitations, and failures of the Party and State in the fields of economy, culture, society, security and defense.... At the same time, the forces tried to take advantage of the shortcomings of a part of cadres and party members who were degraded, corrupt, and negative and were disciplined to raise the individual phenomenon to its essence, blacken the regime, and deny it. fully accept the efforts and achievements of the whole political system.

With seemingly ""objective and frank"" words, but in fact political opportunists want to conspire to lead public opinion to disparage and deny the core role of the government apparatus. Then gather into cyber ""protests"", more serious can turn into real-life riots.

Third, not only do they speak out to distort and slander the regime, they also entice and incite individuals who intend or reveal their intentions to oppose and discontent with the State into a collective force. , organizations through social networking sites. The enticing and seduction is done with promises, financial backing (mainly) or ""self-titled"" by ""titles"" in associations, groups or organizations.

Thus, it can be seen that associations, groups and organizations like Clean Newspaper have ""vindicated"" the guise of ""democracy"" as a ""breakthrough"" in the strategy of ""peaceful evolution"" to oppose the regime. Behind all the ""reform"" rhetoric is the demand to implement the multi-party system, deny the leadership role, and move towards removing the Communist Party from the development process of the nation. This is a very malicious, sinister and blatant scheme of political opportunistic forces.

Regulations of international and Vietnamese law

International law stipulates that human rights in cyberspace are human rights and fundamental freedoms in terms of political, civil, economic, social and cultural expression in cyberspace. According to the fundamental principle of international human rights law: everyone has the right to freedom of expression without interference. The common feature of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) is: “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of field, orally, in writing, in print or in the form of art, through any media of their choice”.

Therefore, in the current context, the right to free expression of information takes place not only in the form of direct language and actions, but also in indirect forms through cyberspace, this form of expression. are still recognized by international law.

However, freedom of expression in cyberspace is not an absolute right. If absolute freedom means freedom of anarchy, wild freedom, everyone speaks, speaks indiscriminately, distorts the truth, fabricates, shares unverified information, regardless of right or wrong. will lead to loss of control, cause social disorder, information disturbance, may create a social information crisis, leading to instability in security and social order.

According to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 19 of the ICCPR, the right to freedom of expression may be subject to certain restrictions in order to respect the rights and freedoms of others, public health or social morals, for reasons of public safety and security. national security or public order; These restrictions must be provided for in national legislation.

In Europe, most countries are influenced by the doctrine that it is easy for people to abuse their rights to enjoy, such abuse is easy to harm others, so freedom must be limit. From that point of view, the European Union (including 28 countries) allows member countries to consider the interests of each country to make specific regulations to guide citizens to exercise their freedoms. speech. That is the right to freedom of expression must be within the principle of ensuring ""national security, territorial integrity, maintenance of public order and the prevention of crime, protection of health and morality, dignity or honor."" human rights, prevent the spread of classified information, and ensure the power and independence of judicial authorities"".
In 1982, Vietnam joined the ICCPR and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), recognizing the legal values ​​of human rights in the International Human Rights Law, including human rights. freedom of information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of speech and expression of opinions.

Up to the present time, on the basis of ensuring the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Vietnam has been continuously improved. As of December 31, 2020, the country had 779 press agencies and 21,132 journalists. On the other hand, Vietnam is currently the top country in terms of the percentage of citizens participating in social networks, with more than 70% of citizens across different regions, regions and social groups. At the same time, according to the law, no person or group of citizens is prohibited or restricted from participating in social networks and expressing their right to freedom of expression.

Freedoms nFreedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of publication, and freedom of assembly were stipulated right from the 1946 Constitution, reaffirmed in later Constitutions. Up to the 2013 Constitution and current governing documents such as the Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016, the Cybersecurity Law 2018, the right to freedom of expression is recognized as follows: Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, demonstration. The exercise of these rights is provided for by law. The State creates favorable conditions for people with disabilities, people living in border areas, islands, mountainous areas and areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions to exercise their right to access information...

The views of the Vietnamese Party and State on the exercise of human freedoms, including freedom of speech of citizens are very clear, transparent, scientific and humane. The State always takes care of well implementing the basic freedoms of people and citizens, but it must be accompanied by discipline, discipline and law.

image003-1626417216.jpg
 
For acts of taking advantage to damage the honor and dignity of others, harming the interests of the nation or nation, they must be severely punished according to law. The Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016 and the Law on Cybersecurity in 2018 both clearly stipulate the limits of freedom of expression in cyberspace, such as: acts such as posting, broadcasting, etc. spreading false information, distorting, defaming, denying the government; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero; Untrue information, slander, insult to the reputation of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals ... are handled by law.

Article 4 (Clause 3) of the 2018 Cybersecurity Law defines: “Strictly combine the task of protecting network security and protecting information systems important to national security with the task of socio-economic development. society, ensuring human rights and citizens' rights, and creating conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace. This principle is an important legal basis for the establishment of a mechanism to harmonize regulations that limit rights with the guarantee of rights and freedoms in cyberspace.
Looking at the provisions of international and domestic laws, it can be seen that the act of publishing false articles by the ""Clean Newspaper"" group has violated the limit of freedom of expression on the Internet. cyberspace. These are slanderous, libelous, fabricated information that infringe upon national security and social order, denying the government. This information has affected the proper functioning of the judiciary, the leadership of the Party and the operation of the State apparatus.

In fact, this is not a new trick of the criminal, many organizations have used it with a similar motif before, but the results of the ""Book"" target group are still achieved to a certain extent. That is the number of users who are interested in, commenting, and sharing posts on social networks. Even the Facebook account (before it was locked) of the accused Truong Chau Huu Danh, the number of followers has reached tens of thousands of people, which is not a small number. Also according to the conclusion of the investigation, since 2011, the accused Truong Chau Huu Danh directly registered and used the Facebook account of the same name for the purpose of writing articles and posting clips for social criticism.

Some solutions to fight and prevent

In the coming time, along with the development of the industrial revolution 4.0, many applications and utilities will continue to appear to meet the increasing needs of people's lives, in which the presence and development of the Internet will continue to grow. society is necessarily objective but also contains many potential risks of non-traditional security. Therefore, in order to fight and prevent tricks from abusing freedom of speech to infringe upon the interests of the State, immediate solutions are needed as follows:

Firstly, Party committees and authorities at all levels need to step up propaganda and education to raise political awareness and vigilance for cadres, party members and people against propaganda activities against the Party and the people. Government. This is a very important solution for each citizen to uphold their responsibilities and raise their vigilance against all plots and tricks of ""peaceful evolution"" of hostile forces.

Second, continue to improve institutions and policies, review the ""gaps"", the ""gaps"" for the formation, arising and existence of negatives.

Third, step up the fight against corruption and negativity from the central to local levels, avoid the situation of ""above hot, under cold"", strengthen people's confidence in the leadership of the Party and management of the Party. Government. This is an important issue in order to create a consensus between the State and the people, to create a united strength to refute all divisive claims from the dissident elements.

Fourthly, synchronously develop solutions for propaganda on the mass media and in cyberspace, contributing to identifying and proactively fighting in a timely and effective manner against all attack and sabotage tricks of the enemy.hostile forces. Press agencies need to proactively identify and fight scientifically and effectively against the plots, tricks and counter-actions of hostile forces."	
"Over the years, in its annual reports, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) has always made comments and assessments that are misleading, lacking in objectivity, even distorting or distorting the issue of press freedom in Vietnam. Vietnam. This year is no exception, on May 3, RSF released the so-called ""Press Freedom Report 2022"", which ranked Vietnam 174th out of 180 countries. Following this report, some overseas Vietnamese sites lack goodwill towards Vietnam such as BBC, RFA, VOA... and social networking sites of reactionary and anti-Vietnamese organizations compete to submit news, writing distorting articles about press freedom in Vietnam. Misrepresentations Reporting on RSF's release of the so-called ""Press Freedom Report 2022"", the BBC headlined: ""Press freedom: RSF continues to rank Vietnam in the 10 worst countries"". In addition to reporting that RFS ranked Vietnam, from 175th position (in 2021), ranked 174th out of 180 countries this year, BBC also did not forget to comment: ""However, it is noteworthy that Vietnam has a number of The number of journalists and activists imprisoned for writing articles on social networks is very large (41) compared to other ASEAN countries such as Indonesia (1), Thailand (2), Cambodia (3) and Laos (5). )"". This Vietnamese page also did not forget to distort the nature of the trial of Pham Doan Trang for the crime of ""Propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam"". BBC also cited the so-called ""Media Freedom Award"", ""Homo Homini Award"", RSF's own award... for Pham Doan Trang as proof of the absence of press freedom in Vietnam. Male. Like the BBC, the RFA also covers the so-called ""Press Freedom Report 2022"" by RSF. This news page headlined: ""Vietnam ranks near the bottom of the World Press Freedom Index 2022"". RFA also provides specific indicators such as, ""political index at 173, economic index at 176, legislative index at 172, social index at 170 and security index at 170 ..."". In a related article, RFA headlined: ""Press freedom in Vietnam is ""very stable at the bottom of the rankings"""". In this article, RFA cited RSF's report misrepresenting that: ""Vietnam's mainstream media are tightly controlled by the Communist Party, leading to many independent reporters and bloggers being imprisoned""; “The repressive apparatus of the State imprisons all journalists from civil society, such as the Clean Newspaper, the Vietnam Independent Journalists Association, or Ms. Pham Doan Trang, who was awarded the Press Freedom Prize. RSF in 2019”... RFA also consulted some reactionary subjects living in exile abroad such as Nguyen Gia Quoc, Trinh Huu Long. And of course, these subjects have the opportunity to distort press freedom in Vietnam. In addition, RFA blatantly misrepresented that: ""In addition to suppressing independent media workers, the censorship apparatus also took a number of other measures to restrict press freedom in Vietnam, such as online directly or indirectly by ""backing"" the spread of fake news, or directing public opinion with ""sensational"" information… VOA also reported: ""Vietnam moves up 1 place on the Press Freedom Index despite jailing more journalists"". This news site also said: ""Despite moving up one level compared to previous years, Vietnam is still in the group of 10 worst countries in the world, that is, the red list of the index table, including countries with poor economic conditions. ""very bad"" journalism. VOA commented, ""Vietnam's ""up"" one place on the RSF Index does not reflect the reality of the ""worse state of press freedom"" in Vietnam""... Do the comments, assessments, statistics of the RSF or the articles, analyzes and comments of the BBC, RFA or VOA really and objectively reflect the issue of press freedom in Vietnam? Or these are just tricks of forces hostile to Vietnam, deliberately distorting to smear and discredit Vietnam. It is not difficult to realize when referring to the reality of press life in Vietnam with the view of the international community, including the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966 on freedom of the press. solstice. Press freedom in Vietnam: The undeniable truth Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, clearly states that the right to freedom of the press is: 1. Everyone has the right to hold their opinion without interference. 2. Everyone has the right to freedom of speech. This right includes freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, orally, or in writing, in print, or in the form of art, or through any other mass media of their choice. 3. The exercise of the rights specified in paragraph 2 of this article is accompanied by special obligations and responsibilities. Therefore, certain limitations may arise. However, these restrictions are required by law and are necessary to: a) Respect the rights or reputations of others, b) Protect national security or public order, public health or morals. Thus, in addition to the right to freedom of the press and freedom of speech, it is also restricted by the following regulations: Do not violate ""personal rights and reputation"" (thec); shall not compromise national security, public order, public health or morals. In other words, each person's right to freedom in general, press freedom, and speech in particular is sacred and important, but it does not mean that because of those rights, people can do anything. The problem is that people live in a social community, so the freedom of each particular person cannot be separated from the freedom of the whole community. Moreover, it is the freedom of everyone and the whole community that is the guarantee for each person's freedom. Therefore, the freedoms of each person cannot but be limited by law in order to guarantee the freedom of others and the common interests of the whole community. But for the purpose of inciting and opposing Vietnam, the above organizations only mentioned and emphasized the rights to freedom of journalism, freedom of press, freedom of speech in the press without mentioning the right to be protected. in a fair and ethical manner in the press and media. They also deliberately did not mention the role of law in regulating press activities for the common purpose, harmony of society and people's welfare. In Vietnam, human rights, including freedom of the press and freedom of speech, are enshrined in the Constitution, the original law, and have the highest legal value. Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution stipulates: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, association and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Accordingly, the State of Vietnam has concretized the exercise of human rights and citizens' rights, including the right to press freedom, into laws and regulations, such as the 2015 Penal Code. National Security Law in 2004, Press Law in 2016, Law on Cybersecurity in 2018... Therefore, there is no arresting journalists if they do not violate Vietnam's criminal law. The numbers given by RSF are that Vietnam is currently holding 41 journalists behind bars; or according to VOA, citing data from the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that Vietnam last year imprisoned 23 journalists just because they dared to tell the truth ... are actually criminal criminals, have violated the laws of the country. social relations protected by criminal law. In particular, the subjects subject to criminal prosecution that some international organizations lack goodwill, reactionary elements, and political opportunists call ""journalists"" are criminals who commit acts of infringing upon security. nation. Press freedom in Vietnam is not only enshrined in the Constitution and laws but also affirmed in real life. According to data from the Ministry of Information and Communications, currently, Vietnam has 816 press agencies (print and electronic); there are 72 agencies licensed to operate radio and television with 2 national stations, 64 local stations, 5 television channels. There are more than 40,000 people working in press agencies nationwide, of which 17,161 people have been granted press cards. And every citizen has the right to express their wishes, express opinions and contribute ideas in all fields of politics, economy, culture and society through the mass media, including newspapers. solstice. Vietnam is also considered as one of the countries with the fastest internet growth in the world. The Vietnam Digital Marketing Report 2020 said that Vietnam is one of the 20 countries with the highest internet usage rate in the world with 68.17 million users, accounting for 70% of the population. About 94% of Vietnamese users use the internet regularly with an average usage time of up to 6 hours per day. The vivid reality of Vietnamese press life is solid evidence, confirming that the right to press freedom in Vietnam has been and is being guaranteed in accordance with the law. Therefore, we do not allow RSF or any other organization to misrepresent press freedom in Vietnam."	
"Many organizations and individuals voiced their responses in the name of international and non-governmental organizations, but this digital identity is not difficult to recognize. For example, Freedom House said that ""Vietnam continues to be an enemy of Internet freedom"" when it comes to the Law on Cybersecurity, giving many ""stormy"" views. So who is Freedom House, see the background to know the ""familiarity"".

Freedom House (ie ""free house"") is a non-governmental organization, established in October 1941, headquartered in the United States. The organization assigns itself the mission of ""monitoring the process of global democratization, surveying and studying the implementation of political and civil liberties in countries around the world"".

Freedom House also claims to be “a transparent voice for democracy and freedom in the world”! To demonstrate its mission, every year Freedom House publishes documents called reports on freedom in the world, annual reports on press freedom and Internet freedom. Worth mentioning, out of more than 200 countries and territories around the world, Freedom House chooses its own list to survey.


Many people took to the streets to gather and cause trouble due to the impact

from provocative information on social networks.

Many times, in its report on ""world freedom"", ""freedom of the press"", ""internet freedom"", Freedom House continues to consider Vietnam as a ""non-free"" country in the exercise of political freedom. administrative and civil.

Since its inception, Freedom House has been a propaganda machine created by the late President Roosevelt to prepare the American public for America's entry into the war in World War II. However, after the end of the second world war, Freedom House was not dissolved, but continued to be used to conduct propaganda campaigns, advocate for the Marshall Plan and NATO, and propagate propaganda. against Communism.

It is a fact that until now, most of Freedom House's operating funds are funded by the US Government, so it has become a tool of those who have spent money to operate under the guise of research, monitoring, promote freedom, democracy, human rights...

Therefore, the information that Freedom House gives about Internet freedom is imposed by bad ideas and intentions. Recently, Freedom House's 2017 Internet Freedom report in the United States said that Vietnam continues to ""sink deeper into the group of countries without Internet freedom"". They ranked Vietnam 7th, after China, Cuba... and depicted on the map with gray bars, indicating that the country has not changed in terms of Internet freedom.

The way Freedom House does it is similar to Human Rights Watch (HRW), which is to turn yes into no, no into yes, using lies to slander. Like Freedom House, every year HRW repeats its misrepresentation, accusing Vietnam of suppressing the right to freedom of speech, association, freedom of the press, and the Internet.

The characters that HRW cited for so-called ""repression of human rights"" also echo the list that Freedom House uses if the number of ""democrats and human rights activists"" is active in anti-social media channels. spread on the Internet. Supporting and accompanying Freedom House, HRW, there are many websites, newspapers, magazines, radio stations and press organizations such as Southeast Asia Press Alliance (Seapa), Reporters Without Borders Organization Reporters sans frontières (RSF)...

In their annual reports and reports, these organizations make false statements and assessments that the Vietnamese State violates freedom of the press, the Internet, suppresses the press, suppresses bloggers, and then deliberately ranks Vietnam Nam is on the list of countries with extremely low rankings in terms of freedom of the press, speech, and Internet... HRW, Freedom House cites cases of imprisonment and criminal punishment when taking advantage of the internet to commit crimes. offense.

The annual ""Press Freedom Index"" report of Reporters Without Borders said that freedom of the press and the Internet in Vietnam ""has not shown any signs of improvement"", people ""are not allowed to freely due to access to information” and Vietnam has become “the world’s second largest prisoner of bloggers and netizens”. Similar to the guise of Freedom House, together with the publication of the report, RSF took advantage of a number of media outlets that lack sympathy for Vietnam and are hostile to Vietnam to give interviews ""to deepen the understanding of Vietnam."" than” this report.

Born in 1985 in France, from the very beginning, RSF gave itself the right to promote freedom of the press and freedom of expression in the Western style. RSF is a name with no face that often distorts and distorts the situation of press freedom in Vietnam. Their way of doing things is also like no other, it is based on denunciations or articles of law-breaking objects and then chained and put on a list of condemnation of violations of freedom of the press, internet, and speech.

In fact, RSF operates not in the interests of journalists, who have been denounced in many countries. This organization is also accused of receiving a lot of support from American billionaire George Soros, who has supported the Solidarnosc union with millions of dollars, from the National Endowment for Democracy - an organization. 90% of the budget comes from the national budget of the US and belongs to the Ministry of FinanceAmerican diplomacy”.

Because of such financial dependence, RSF, Freedom House, HRW... all have the same motive and purpose of action. Therefore, until the next appointment, their reports and reports list dozens and hundreds of countries and territories around the world to evaluate ""in their own way"", thereby criticizing, only to the governments of the countries.

Therefore, it is not surprising that when the National Assembly passed the bill, RSF immediately called for ""revoking the Cybersecurity Law"". Daniel Bastard, head of RSF's Asia-Pacific office, said: ""We ask Vietnamese lawmakers to revoke this harsh new law, which has been instrumental in strengthening control. government for access to information”. “We also ask online service companies not to give in to the unacceptable threats posed by this law” he threatened!

Obviously, the truth of those of RSF, Freedom House, HRW... has been revealed for a long time, the same guise, tricks of fraud, deception and slander as before, although today's trend has changed a lot.

Along with such organizations, many individuals at home and abroad also have the opportunity to ""condemn"" the issue of cybersecurity, criticize the National Assembly and the State of Vietnam. It can be clearly seen that those who commit illegal acts, taking advantage of cyberspace to destroy the country, have been handled by the authorities in various forms.

This number has long used the Internet to write defamatory propaganda articles, in the name of ""civil society"", ""democracy and human rights"", ""defense of the Fatherland""... to form associations and groups with the name. Calls, slogans, principles, and purposes are easy to impress with the needs and tastes of certain classes and social sectors such as ""Civil Society Forum"", ""Prisoners of Conscience Association"", ""Association of Prisoners of Conscience"". Association of Women for Human Rights"", ""Association for Mutual Friendship"", ""Association of Independent Journalists""...

Their tricks are through websites, online forums, especially social networks to openly organize, propagate, deceive, entice people to participate, and use security software to communicate. , organize online training and training for the number of members, openly write petitions, demand the establishment of an opposition political party, request the establishment of an association or group, and demand lawsuits, slander, and misrepresentation of the State. We violate international treaties on civil rights…

Objects take advantage of loopholes in the law, negative issues, democracy, human rights, ethnicity and religion in the country to propagate, distort and plot to form and publicize organizations political opposition in Vietnam. Others are now following this thought and point of view, promoting and defending illegal acts of what they call ""dissidents"" such as: Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh, Nguyen Van Hai, Nguyen Van Dai, Dinh Nguyen Kha, Nguyen Phuong Uyen, Ta Phong Tan, Dinh Nhat Uy, Truong Minh Tam, Chu Manh Son...

With cyber security, a regulating law, directly affecting cyberspace - where the forces, organizations and individuals as cited above use as effective tools against Vietnam are like leeches. right lime, they react violently.

The problem is that we - the people who live and protect this regime, this country and this people must understand it properly, know the difference between right and wrong. But if you keep seeing people talking online, swearing online, saying that this law is nothing, this law covers the regime, pulls back history, this law strengthens dictatorship, is totalitarian... I don't know if the crab's head is narrow, so it's dangerous to join in.

Seen as it is, the current joining in like the wind in bamboo houses on facebook, blogs, and online forums is scary. How many people have read the bill, then when the National Assembly passed it, they saw every word in the law and saw the Internet swearing, they also joined in cursing, then shared articles, clips, mocking graphics everywhere, as if I enjoy something very good, but I don't know that it is a help to sow disaster, but first of all, it is in myself before talking about the disaster in people, the disaster for society and the country."	
"Freedom of speech is one of the basic human rights that should be respected and guaranteed. However, in any country, freedom of expression must also be within the framework of the law in order to avoid being taken advantage of, damaging the rights and interests of other individuals, social morality and order. public and national security. With the development of information technology, the internet and social networks have become tools to express the freedom of expression of the majority of the people, which poses many social and legal problems, including: current information management in cyberspace.

Internet and social network users, especially young people, need to improve their awareness and self-screening capacity. Photo: Internet
Internet and social network users, especially young people, need to improve their awareness and self-screening capacity. Photo: Internet
Limits of freedom of expression in cyberspace

Freedom of speech is a basic human right, but it must always be limited within the framework of the law. Article 19 of the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: “The exercise of the right to freedom of expression may be subject to certain limitations and these should be provided for by law, in order to : a) Respect the rights or reputation of others; b) Protect national security or public order, health or morals of society”. Thus, freedom of speech is not absolute freedom. Under certain circumstances, freedom of expression may conflict with other legitimate values ​​or rights.

Especially, in the context of the explosion of the internet and social networks, information becomes more complex and difficult to control. Through electronic information sites and social networks, users can freely express opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts without incurring any liability. which limit. Expressing one's freedom of speech has never been so easy and so contagious. But this itself also brings risks when this right is abused, especially when those who post information on cyberspace have wrong views, extreme attitudes, inadequate legal awareness...

Looking at the law enforcement practices of many countries around the world, it can be seen that there is no such thing as absolute freedom of speech. Each country, depending on specific conditions and contexts, imposes certain limits on the exercise of free speech by its citizens. In the United States, the limits of freedom of expression are shown mainly in the case law of the courts, especially the US Supreme Court, which allows the government to prevent and punish speech of a pornographic nature. , obscene, defamatory, offensive and aggressive, without being considered unconstitutional.

In France, the law on freedom of speech sets forth strict limits and sanctions to punish abuses of the right to freedom of expression that affect the legitimate rights and interests of others, including the protection of human dignity, against slander and libel; against racial and religious discrimination; against inciting violence and hatred (Law on Freedom of the Press, 1881); against invasion of privacy (Civil Code); Prohibit the publication of certain documents related to national security (Criminal Law). Expressing personal views on the internet is also governed by the Press Freedom Law.

The European Union (EU) has issued a Code of Conduct on the internet with the commitment to action of the world's four largest online businesses including Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Microsoft. These moves aim to ""ensure the people's right to true freedom of expression and create the basis for building a truly democratic and civilized society"".

Most recently, in the midst of a ""storm"" of fake news about the COVID-19 epidemic, a series of countries around the world have implemented many sanctions, from warnings, fines to jailing those who spread false rumors. true. In China, the act of spreading false information about the epidemic is punishable by fines, public surveillance or imprisonment from 3 to 7 years if causing serious consequences. In South Korea, President Moon Jae-in declared spreading fabricated information about the epidemic a ""serious offense"". Meanwhile, in Malaysia, the Government has arrested 6 people for posting false information about the Corona virus. Iranian police also arrested a person for posting a fake video, announcing a hospitalized COVID-19 patient on social networks. In the UK, a ""misinformation control unit"" has been set up to conduct the identification of COVID-19 fake news and liaise with media businesses to remove it.

The fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace in Vietnam today

Freedom in general and freedom of speech in particular need to be understood as freedom within the framework of the law. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1953 European Convention on Human Rights, and the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights all affirm the right to freedom of expression, but also emphasize freedom of speech as freedom. within the limits of morality and destructionp law, mainly aimed at protecting the dignity, honor (private life) of others, protecting business secrets, anti-discrimination, anti-discrimination, anti-incitement to violence, war, anti-criticism , criticize the government, especially if it is called for riots, threatening public order and national security. Therefore, each country can consider its actual situation to concretize the exercise of citizens' right to freedom of expression.

Obviously, in any political regime there can be no absolute freedom of speech, countries strictly handle acts of abusing freedom of speech; promoting freedom of speech must be for the common good, not the absolutization of individual freedom, not taking advantage of freedom of speech to write, speak, or distort with bad intentions, regardless of morality and law. France.

In Vietnam, the Party and State always respect and guarantee human rights, including citizens' right to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is considered a constitutional right right in the first Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1946: “Vietnamese citizens have the following rights: freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence and movement in the country and abroad” (Article 10). The 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam continues to affirm: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is provided for by law” (Article 25). Besides, we also have the Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016. Our country's legal framework on basic freedom of expression is adequate, synchronous and compatible with international law on human rights. Like other countries in the world, Vietnam has regulations to limit and prevent acts of abusing freedom of speech, infringing upon national interests, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , citizen.

Aware of the importance, benefits and dangers of the internet and social networks, our Party and State have adopted appropriate guidelines and policies to develop the internet and social networks; at the same time protect network security and prevent and fight against taking advantage of the internet and social networks to distort, oppose the government, and infringe on the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. Among them are Directive No. 28-CT/TW, dated September 16, 2013, of the Secretariat of the XI term, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security""; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP, dated July 15, 2013, of the Government, on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”; Directive No. 15/CT-TTg, dated June 17, 2014, of the Prime Minister, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security and safety in the new situation"". The document of the 12th Party Congress clearly states: ""Focusing on the management of various types of information on the internet to orient the people's ideology and aesthetics, especially youth and teenagers"". In addition, during the implementation of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW, dated January 22, 2018, of the Politburo, on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation, and fighting against false views. contrary, hostile in the new situation"", the Central Propaganda Department has strengthened the direction of the work of fighting and countering false information and claims, conspiracy, and activities taking advantage of the internet and social networks to fight back. destroy the Party and the State. The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security proactively detect, fight, prevent and strictly handle those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to violate the law. The Cyber ​​Command (Ministry of Defense) was established under Decision No. 1198/QD-TTg, dated August 15, 2017, by the Prime Minister, playing a pivotal role in ensuring security. , national cyber security, fight against high-tech crime and ""peaceful evolution"" in cyberspace. The Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information in 2016 and the Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, both clearly stipulate acts such as posting and spreading false information, distorting, defaming, denying the government; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero; Untrue information, slander, insult to the reputation of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals ... are handled by law.

Reactionary and hostile forces at home and abroad have been taking advantage of freedom of speech to distort and destroy our Party and State, smear and slander the government, incite and panic among the people. , threatening national security and social order and safety. For example, regarding the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity, many websites and reactionary elements have distorted and distorted information, claiming that this law ""especially infringes on private space"", violate freedom of speech, the press, the internet"". Some people do not have enough information, lack of understanding, so they easily believe and make opposing statements, hindering the implementation of the Law. The Dong Tam incident on January 9, 2020 caused shock and division in the community because of too many conflicting news streams on social networks. Enemy forces also take the opportunityThis propaganda aims to destroy the regime…

The phenomenon of spreading fake and false information online also causes many consequences. For example, while the State is making efforts to prevent, control and repel the COVID-19 epidemic, there are people who take advantage of the epidemic situation to propagate false information, distort the Party's policies and guidelines, State policies cause confusion in public opinion. They fabricated a false picture of the epidemic situation in Vietnam, spread fake news, made up stories about the number of infected people, the number of deaths, and announced that the rate of disease spread was many times higher than that of the Government. government announcements, creating fear in the community, disturbing social life, causing doubts and conflicts between the people, the Party and the State. Through baseless information, hostile forces deliberately ignored the important results we have achieved, downplaying the Party's leadership role, the State's management capacity in handling the epidemic, slandered the State for concealing information, failing to prevent the epidemic from the beginning… Not only that, many subjects also intentionally spread false information about the epidemic situation in order to gain illicit profits. It is negative information that makes people afraid, rush to buy masks, hoard food, leading to the situation of ""picking up"" goods, ""blowing"" prices... Such acts cannot be used ""freely"". speech” to defend.

When we prevent the above misinformation and misinformation, hostile forces claim that this is ""a form of information censorship"", ""violating the right to freedom of speech"". The truth is, the above prevention is necessary, in accordance with the law, all countries in the world must do it. After the Ministry of Information and Communications promoted exchange and working activities with representatives of Facebook, Google proposed to prevent, process and remove information that violates Vietnamese law on social networks, thousands of videos, including videos with inciting content to destroy the Party and State, have been removed from Youtube; Thousands of links with illegal content, hundreds of fake accounts, propaganda against the Party and State have also been blocked by Facebook...

To fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace, it is necessary to implement synchronously the following solutions:

Firstly, education and propaganda to raise the responsibility of network users and the spirit of vigilance against rumors. Raising awareness and self-screening capacity of people and communities, forming positive behavior habits in the online environment. This is a key and long-term solution for each citizen to become an effective information filter for themselves and the community.

Secondly, regularly monitoring, surveying, evaluating, promptly adjusting, supplementing and perfecting the legal system, mechanisms and policies to help effective management while being consistent with the rules governing administrative culture in social and community activities, while keeping up with the development of social networks.

Third, it is necessary to strengthen technical measures. Specifically, adequate investment in agencies responsible for ensuring national cyber security and safety. Recruit and train a team of experts who are good at information technology, capable of effectively implementing technical and professional measures. At the same time, to encourage the development of Vietnam's social network; coordinate with major foreign social network service providers, such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, Youtube to promptly prevent, handle and eliminate risks affecting social safety and national security. family."	
"Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 19, Universal Declaration human rights (UDHR) in 1948 states: “Everyone has the right to freedom of speech and expression; including freedom to hold opinions without interference; as well as freedom to seek, receive and impart ideas and information through any media, and without frontiers”. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) 1966 also stipulates: “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas, regardless of domain, orally, in writing, in print, or in the form of art, through any media of their choice”. It can be said that freedom of speech is an important basis for the full realization of other human rights and is associated with the right to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, association, freedom of thought, belief and religion. education, as well as the right to participate in the management of state and social affairs.
However, along with the development of information technology in this day and age, the form of expression of free speech has undergone a great change. The Internet and social networks have become popular tools for all individuals and organizations to express their views and ideas, spread information, and express their right to freedom of expression. Its pervasiveness and influence are sometimes stronger and faster than traditional journalism and other forms of expression. This fact has raised many social and legal problems, including the management of information in cyberspace.

Limits of freedom of expression in cyberspace

Freedom of speech is a basic human right, but it must always be limited within the framework of the law. Article 19 of the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: “The exercise of the right to freedom of expression may be subject to certain limitations and these should be provided for by law, in order to : a) Respect the rights or reputation of others; b) Protect national security or public order, health or morals of society”. Thus, freedom of speech is not absolute freedom. Under certain circumstances, freedom of expression may conflict with other legitimate values ​​or rights.

Especially, in the context of the explosion of the internet and social networks, information becomes more complex and difficult to control. Through electronic information sites and social networks, users can freely express opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts without incurring any liability. which limit. Expressing one's freedom of speech has never been so easy and so contagious. But this itself also brings risks when this right is abused, especially when those who post information on cyberspace have wrong views, extreme attitudes, inadequate legal awareness...

Looking at the law enforcement practices of many countries around the world, it can be seen that there is no such thing as absolute freedom of speech. Each country, depending on specific conditions and contexts, imposes certain limits on the exercise of free speech by its citizens. In the United States, the limits of freedom of expression are shown mainly in the case law of the courts, especially the US Supreme Court, which allows the government to prevent and punish speech of a pornographic nature. , obscene, defamatory, offensive and aggressive, without being considered unconstitutional.

In France, the law on freedom of speech sets forth strict limits and sanctions to punish abuses of the right to freedom of expression that affect the legitimate rights and interests of others, including the protection of human dignity, against slander and libel; against racial and religious discrimination; against inciting violence and hatred (Law on Freedom of the Press, 1881); against invasion of privacy (Civil Code); Prohibit the publication of certain documents related to national security (Criminal Law). Expressing personal views on the internet is also governed by the Press Freedom Law.

In addition to France, many other European countries are also very strict in this regard in order to combat all forms of inciting propaganda, and to carry out criminal sanctions for hate speech and incitement. Italy, Spain, and Turkey also criminalize acts of defamation, insulting the honor of the president or members of the royal family. In addition, in a joint effort to prevent the abuse of free speech to make hateful and negative statements on the internet, the European Union (EU) has issued a Code of Conduct on the internet with commitment to combines the actions of four of the world's largest network enterprises including Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Microsoft. These moves aim to ""guarantee the people's right to freedom of speech in the truest sense and create the basis for building a truly democratic and civilized society"".first).

Most recently, in the midst of a ""storm"" of fake news about the COVID-19 epidemic, a series of countries around the world have implemented many sanctions, from warnings, fines to jailing those who spread false rumors. true. In China, the act of spreading false information about the epidemic is punishable by fines, public surveillance or imprisonment from 3 to 7 years if causing serious consequences. In South Korea, President Moon Jae-in declared spreading fabricated information about the epidemic a ""serious offense"". Meanwhile, in Malaysia, the Government has arrested 6 people for posting false information about the Corona virus. Iranian police also arrested a person for posting a fake video, announcing a hospitalized COVID-19 patient on social networks. In the UK, a ""misinformation control unit"" has been set up to conduct the identification of COVID-19 fake news and liaise with media businesses to remove it.

Fighting against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace in Vietnam today


Internet and social network users, especially young people, need to raise their awareness and self-screening capacity_Photo: Documentation Freedom in general and freedom of speech in particular need to be understood as freedom within the framework of law. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1953 European Convention on Human Rights, and the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights all affirm the right to freedom of expression, but also emphasize freedom of speech as freedom. within the limits of morality and law, mainly aimed at protecting the dignity and honor (private life) of others, protecting business secrets, preventing discrimination, discrimination, and inciting violence force, war, resisting criticism, criticizing the government, especially if they are calls for riots, threatening public order and national security. Therefore, each country can consider its actual situation to concretize the exercise of citizens' right to freedom of expression.
Obviously, in any political regime there can be no absolute freedom of speech, countries strictly handle acts of abusing freedom of speech; promoting freedom of speech must be for the common good, not the absolutization of individual freedom, not taking advantage of freedom of speech to write, speak, or distort with bad intentions, regardless of morality and law. France.

In Vietnam, the Party and State always respect and guarantee human rights, including citizens' right to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is considered a constitutional right right in the first Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1946: “Vietnamese citizens have the following rights: freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence and movement in the country and abroad” (Article 10). The 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam continues to affirm: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law” (Article 25). Besides, we also have the Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016. Our country's legal framework on basic freedom of expression is adequate, synchronous and compatible with international law on human rights. Like other countries in the world, Vietnam has regulations to limit and prevent acts of abusing freedom of speech, infringing upon national interests, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , citizen.

Aware of the importance, benefits and dangers of the internet and social networks, our Party and State have adopted appropriate guidelines and policies to develop the internet and social networks; at the same time protect network security and prevent and fight against taking advantage of the internet and social networks to distort, oppose the government, and infringe on the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. Among them are Directive No. 28-CT/TW, dated September 16, 2013, of the Secretariat of the XI term, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security""; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP, dated July 15, 2013, of the Government, on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”; Directive No. 15/CT-TTg, dated June 17, 2014, of the Prime Minister, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security and safety in the new situation"". The document of the 12th Party Congress clearly states: ""Focusing on the management of various types of information on the internet to orient the people's ideology and aesthetics, especially for young people and teenagers"". In addition, during the implementation of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW, dated January 22, 2018, of the Politburo, on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation and fighting against false views contrary, hostile in the new situation"", the Central Propaganda Department has strengthened the direction of the work of fighting and countering false information and claims, conspiracy, and activities taking advantage of the internet and social networks to fight back. destroy the Party and State. The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security proactively detect, fight, prevent and strictly handle those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to violate the law. The Cyber ​​Command (Ministry of National Defense) was established under Decision No. 1198/QD-TTg, datedAugust 15, 2017, by the Prime Minister, plays a pivotal role in ensuring national cyber security and safety, fighting against high-tech crime and ""peaceful evolution"" on the Internet. cyberspace. The Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information in 2016 and the Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, both clearly stipulate acts such as posting and spreading false information, distorting, defaming, denying the government; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero; Untrue information, slander, insult to the reputation of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals ... are handled by law.

Reactionary and hostile forces at home and abroad have been taking advantage of freedom of speech to distort and destroy our Party and State, smear and slander the government, incite and confuse the people. , threatening national security and social order and safety. For example, regarding the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity, many websites and reactionary elements have distorted and distorted information, claiming that this law ""especially infringes on private space"", violate freedom of speech, the press, the internet"". Some people do not have enough information, lack of understanding, so they easily believe and make opposing statements, hindering the implementation of the Law. The Dong Tam incident on January 9, 2020 caused shock and division in the community because of too many conflicting news streams on social networks. Enemy forces also take this opportunity to propagate against the regime...

The phenomenon of spreading fake and false information online also causes many consequences. For example, while the State is making efforts to prevent, control and repel the COVID-19 epidemic, there are those who take advantage of the epidemic situation to propagate false information, distort the Party's policies and guidelines, State policies cause confusion in public opinion. They fabricated a false picture of the epidemic situation in Vietnam, spread fake news, made up stories about the number of infected people, the number of deaths, and announced that the rate of disease spread was many times higher than that of the Government. government announced, creating fear for the community, disturbing social life, causing doubts and conflicts between the people, the Party and the State. Through baseless information, hostile forces deliberately ignored the important results we have achieved, downplaying the Party's leadership role, the State's management capacity in handling the epidemic, slandered the State for concealing information, failing to prevent the epidemic from the beginning… Not only that, many subjects also intentionally spread false information about the epidemic situation in order to gain illicit profits. It is negative information that makes people afraid, rushing to buy masks, hoarding food, leading to the situation of ""stashing"" goods, ""blowing"" prices... Such acts cannot be used ""freely"". speech” to defend.

When we prevent the above misinformation and misinformation, hostile forces claim that this is ""a form of information censorship"", ""violating the right to freedom of speech"". The truth is, the above prevention is necessary, in accordance with the law, all countries in the world must do it. After the Ministry of Information and Communications promoted exchange and working activities with representatives of Facebook, Google proposed to prevent, process and remove information that violates Vietnamese law on social networks, thousands of videos, including those with content inciting against the Party and State, have been removed from Youtube; Thousands of links with illegal content, hundreds of fake accounts, propaganda against the Party and State have also been blocked by Facebook...

In order to fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace, it is necessary to implement synchronously the following solutions:

Firstly, education and propaganda to raise the responsibility of network users and the spirit of vigilance against rumors. Raising awareness and self-screening capacity of people and communities, forming positive behavior habits in the online environment. This is a key and long-term solution for each citizen to become an effective information filter for themselves and the community.

Secondly, regularly monitoring, surveying, evaluating, promptly adjusting, supplementing and perfecting the legal system, mechanisms and policies to help effective management while being consistent with the rules governing administrative culture in social and community activities, while keeping up with the development of social networks.

Third, it is necessary to strengthen technical measures. Specifically, adequate investment in agencies responsible for ensuring national cyber security and safety. Recruit and train a team of experts who are good at information technology, capable of effectively implementing technical and professional measures. At the same time, to encourage the development of Vietnam's social network; coordinate with major foreign social network service providers, such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, Youtube to promptly prevent, handle and eliminate risks affecting social safety and national security. family."	
"Currently, in Vietnam and the world, cyberspace is very large, the network system is widely used in Vietnam, including web browsers (Google Chrome, Safari...), news websites. , social networks such as: Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, etc. searches and searches such as: Google map, big... Individuals, citizens and any organization can freely express their witness, results exchange with each other. This is the right to freedom of speech and freedom of information in the network environment; is the fundamental freedom of citizens, which is respected and protected by international law, the Constitution and the law of Vietnam.

Every individual has the right to freely use cyberspace - Photo 1.
The internet space is huge.

However, the use of cyberspace must also be in accordance with international standards. Accordingly, each individual and citizen, while using and exercising their rights and freedoms, must have obligations and responsibilities towards the community, society, and the country or people in which they live. . This means that the use and exercise of personal rights and freedoms must not affect/infringe on national security; public order, social ethics; the rights and freedoms of others.

Concretizing the principle of restricting the exercise of personal rights and freedoms, the Law on Cybersecurity and other relevant laws have prescribed by prohibited acts.

In cyberspace, everyone has the right to freedom, but there are limited principles when using the network to ensure compliance for many benefits; Violations will be dealt with.

Although there is freedom of speech in cyberspace, the law stipulates that when posting information on social networks, it is not allowed to post false information, incite violence... All false information, no If the truth is true, it is necessary to review and penalize those who spread incorrect information in cyberspace."	
"Freedom of speech in Vietnam is upheld and guaranteedD128

“Everyone has the right to freedom of speech and expression; including freedom to hold opinions without interference, as well as freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers”(1). That is the main content of Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights), adopted and published by the United Nations General Assembly in accordance with Resolution 271A (III), dated 10- December 1948. More than 70 years of existence, the Declaration is still valid, considered a declaration of great human meaning, has been, is and will still be the striving goal of all mankind.

For each country and nation, the inheritance, development, application and adherence to the values ​​of the Declaration are different, governed by specific political, economic, social and cultural characteristics. But there is a mandatory common point that these freedoms must be within the framework of the law, as stipulated in Articles 29 and 30 of the Declaration itself.

Marx and Ph. Engels, from the point of view of dialectical materialism, by objectively examining bourgeois human rights with a critical spirit, came to the affirmation: “Rights can never be higher than the economic system and cultural development is determined by that economic regime”(2); corresponding to different eras and different socio-economic bases have different rights. Accordingly, the concept of free speech is not constant, but changes in history.

In Vietnam, with a vision beyond the times, leader Nguyen Ai Quoc soon shaped the idea of ​​free speech. In his speech at the 18th National Congress of the French Socialist Party, in 1921, he accused the French colonialists of stifling freedom of speech for the people of Annam: ""We do not have the right to press freedom of the press. freedom of speech and expression, not even the right to freedom of assembly and association. We do not have the right to reside and travel abroad; we have to live in darkness of ignorance because we do not have the freedom to study. In Indochina, the colonialists tried everything to poison us with opium and make us stupid with alcohol. They have killed thousands of Annamites and slaughtered thousands of others to protect interests that are not their own”(3). Therefore, in the claim of the people of Annam, Nguyen Ai Quoc called on allied governments in general and the French government in particular to recognize the basic rights of the people of Annam, including the right to freedom. While waiting for the national principle to move from the realm of ideals into the realm of reality, where the sacred self-determination of the peoples is truly recognized, the people of the former Annam, now being the country of East - France, I would like to present to the Allied Governments in general and to the venerable French Government in particular, the following modest claims: ... 3. Freedom of the press and freedom of expression ”(4). Consistent with that claim, leader Ho Chi Minh in the Viet Minh Program, advocated: ""The people's government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, elected by the National Congress, will implement the following policies: . ..2. Promulgating democratic freedoms for the people: Freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization, freedom of belief, freedom of movement within the country, freedom to emigrate. Abolish conscription and oppressive regimes imposed by the empire” (5).

Realizing the idea of ​​freedom of speech, just over a year after the birth of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, on November 9, 1946, the National Assembly approved a Constitution consisting of 7 chapters and 70 articles, inheriting the quintessence of national culture and the main ideology of humanity, in line with the country's reality; in which, the right to freedom of speech is constitutionally stated in Article 10: “Vietnamese citizens have the following rights: Freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence residence, travel within the country and abroad”. Implementing the first Constitution of our country in general and exercising the right to freedom of speech in particular, only 3 years later, in an interview with Mr. Walter Briggs, March 1949, published in the National Salvation Newspaper, no. 1198, on March 23, 1949, Ho Chi Minh affirmed the achievement of freedom of speech very clearly: “Q: Is there freedom of speech in Vietnam (apart from treasonous and pro-French colonial speeches) )? Answer: Yes”. Continuing to affirm the right to freedom of speech in the Report on the draft Amended Constitution at the 11th session of the First National Assembly of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, read on December 18, 1959, he continued to affirm that the right Freedom of speech is one of the basic rights of citizens...

A unique feature of Ho Chi Minh's thought on the right to freedom of expression is that this right must be coupled with personal obligations and responsibilities. Freedom of speech and thought are a fundamental and most important value of human rights. He explained: “Our regime is a democracy, thoughts must be free. What is freedom? On all issues, people are free to express their opinions, contributing to finding the truth. It is a right but also an obligation of everyone. When people have expressed their opinions, have found tWhen you see the truth, then the freedom of thought turns into the freedom to submit to the truth. Truth is something beneficial to the Fatherland, to the people. What is contrary to the interests of the Fatherland and the people is not the truth. To strive to serve the Fatherland, to serve the people - that is, to submit to the truth""(6).

Thoroughly grasping and applying Ho Chi Minh's thought on the right to freedom of expression, during the renovation period, in accordance with the 1992 and 2013 Constitutions, the documents of the Party and State(7) affirm and realize citizens' right to freedom of speech.

It can be understood that, freedom of speech is the freedom to express one's opinions to discuss a common issue; is the right of citizens to participate in discussions, discussions and contribute opinions on common issues of society.

In fact, Vietnam has always faced hostile elements and forces both at home and abroad, in many different fields and fronts, including the ideological and information front. Reactionary and hostile forces always find ways to distort, fabricate, distort and slander the guidelines and policies of the Party and State in all fields, denying the achievements that have been achieved. including achievements recognized and appreciated by international friends.

In the process of national construction and development, in order to be consistent with reality, in the context of the ""flat world"", globalization and deeper international integration, Vietnam has adjusted, supplemented and built build many new laws, upholding and respecting basic and legitimate human rights, including the right to freedom of expression. Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution clearly stipulates: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Or as in the recently enacted laws, such as the Law on Access to Information (2013); Law on Press (2016); Law on Cybersecurity (2018)..., the right to freedom of speech is always respected and guaranteed. Since joining the global internet on December 1, 1997, Vietnam has continuously set new records, guaranteed freedom of speech and press, and best met the needs of searchers. search, exchange and enjoy information anytime, anywhere, in all aspects, ... of the people both on the mass media, as well as on social media. Vietnamese people can easily access all websites and newspapers in the world; can express all their thoughts, concerns, legitimate and lawful desires, ensuring pure customs, traditions, humanistic and ethical values, etc. on social networks hourly, daily, through by writing articles, posting photos, video clips. Each Vietnamese citizen can also access news from major news agencies, newspapers in the world or the personal pages of all ""global citizens"" without facing any restrictions. block, ban...

However, the internet is also exploited by hostile forces and political opportunities to create ""false battlefields"", attacks full of dark intrigues on the ideological front, under the guise of article ""freedom of speech"". But actually, it is not a ""freedom of speech"" in the true sense of the word, not for the development of society but words, inscriptions, images, video clips, hats, embroidery. weave, distort, impose, oppose full of hatred, hatred, darkness. It is really ""free speech"" fabricated, adapted, smeared, painted, ... cheap, baseless, disregarding morality, morality and law.


Fighting against false and hostile claims lurking under very sophisticated and malicious guises in cyberspace of hostile forces, political opportunities_Photo: illustration

It is impossible to accept ""free speech"" that defies both law and morality... in a civilized society

It can be easily identified and statistically that hostile elements and political opportunists are always looking for ways to create so-called ""free speech"" in a childish, narrow, and full of grudges. study with evil schemes. They deliberately, purposefully choose, take advantage of issues that many people care about, are easy to anger, easily spread widely in society to create dark, anti-heroic scenarios with articles, pictures and videos. photos, video clips, ... related to land lawsuits, environmental pollution, protests against BOT toll stations (build - operate - transfer) traffic, crowded gatherings hiding under the so-called is a ""patriotic act"",... aimed at disturbing security and order, ""civil disobedience"", undermining the guidelines and lines of the Party and the State's socio-economic development policy. ta; inciting, calling for violence, overthrowing...

Take specific examples from protest gatherings at traffic BOT toll stations in the first quarter of 2019 in many localities across the country. In these cases, many people, including the leaders, intentionally continuously ""reported directly"", through the livestream feature of the social network Facebook, and misrepresented and slandered the form of BOT investment. , even about the views, guidelines, and lines of the Party and the State... This caused a strong viral reaction on the online community, causing many stations to pay attention.The BOT must ""discharge the station"" for many hours to ensure smooth traffic, security and social order without disorder. Joining in to contribute, a number of foreign online newspapers, overseas and domestic opponents under the beautiful guise of ""anti-dirty BOT"" continuously publish distorted, misleading and false information. left, ... for the purpose of destruction. When lawbreakers are arrested and detained, some foreign online newspapers lack goodwill, especially those with Vietnamese versions and many personal pages on social networks Facebook, YouTube, etc. rushed to comment full of hatred, malice, deliberately steer, reverse the nature of the problem, slander, incite the online community to sabotage, cause insecurity, social safety, obstruct traffic as well as socio-economic development, people's life...

In a broader view, try to review a number of mass gatherings inciting and protesting in Ho Chi Minh City, Binh Duong, Binh Thuan, Nghe An, Ha Tinh,... in recent years, especially in relation to related to marine environmental incidents in four central provinces to call for mass gatherings, demonstrations, insecurity, disorder, opposition, sabotage, etc., the face of the protest organization is clearly seen. Viet Tan movement and their dark schemes. They recruit, train, take advantage of people who are ignorant, gullible, disgruntled, have problems in life,... to work for them, through things like propaganda, manipulation, inciting mass gatherings and spreading protest slogans, using loudspeakers of all kinds to shout indistinctly, causing disturbances, smashing offices of public authorities, factories, etc., causing insecurity and disorder In many cases and affairs, many extremists, rebels, and law-breakers have been arrested for education, in many cases prosecuted and detained, severely sentenced. , suitable...

On this occasion, elements of opposition, sabotage, hostile forces, slander, blatant fabrications, that ""Vietnam suppresses freedom of speech"", ""Arrest people to speak ill of the Party and freedom of speech"" "", ""The petitioners are denied the right to free speech"", ""What is happening with freedom of speech in Vietnam"", ""Vietnam is still a totalitarian country, there is no free speech"". Obviously, just at first glance at the titles of those articles, it is clear to see the distortion and distortion of the right to freedom of speech in Vietnam - a right that right after the successful August Revolution was enshrined in the Constitution. the 1946 legislation and concretized in a timely manner, in line with the development situation of our country over the periods, keeping pace with the progress with universal values ​​of international law, meeting the requirements of the international law. legitimacy of the majority of the people...

In order to guarantee the freedom of one person without harming the freedom of others, it is necessary to have the provisions of the law. The National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity, which took effect from January 1, 2019, but hostile forces claimed that this Law was ""against humanity"", ""destroyed"", ""annihilated democracy"". suppressing dissent"", ""losing the right to freedom of speech"". They deliberately fail to understand that “legally recognized freedom exists in the state in the form of law. Laws are not oppressive measures against freedom... On the contrary, laws are well-defined, universally affirming standards in which freedom has some impersonal, impersonal existence. reasoning, independent of individual arbitrariness. The Code is the bible of the people's freedom.""


The National Assembly has passed the Law on Cybersecurity, effective from January 1, 2019 _Illustration image

On 3-4-2019, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc signed Decision No. 362/QD-TTg, Approving the National Master Plan for Press Development and Management to 2025. This decision has been prepared since long, thorough, suitable for the development in the current situation. Press planning is extremely necessary, when many press agencies have deviant expressions, away from the principles and purposes, commercialization, and one-sided information, focusing only on the negative and negative sides. ... in society, lack of education, even counterproductive, spreading bad things. The implementation of planning and rearrangement of the press system in Vietnam is for the press to operate professionally, to grow stronger, to catch up with the development of the world press... However, immediately, appeared on social networks, especially the Vietnamese versions of some foreign press agencies, with very impulsive and unfounded information... They tried to fabricate and slander that: Press plan to 2025: Reduce quantity, still keep tight control” (RFA, April 3, 2019), “Planning the press 'according to the style of considering the press as a tool'?” (BBC, April 9, 2019), ""The press planning is ""unconstitutional"", will ""employ"" thousands of journalists? (VOA, April 9, 2019)... Similarly, the social networking sites of individuals and organizations that oppose, disrupt, and react, also join in saying, ""Vietnam does not have a press system. independent"", ""Controversial press planning"", ""Press planning - reporters lose their jobs, readers lose choices?""...

The Acknowledged Achievements and Endings of So-called ""Free Speech""

Torefuting and affirming the absurd ""free speech"" that hostile elements and forces distort, inflate, and spread widely on cyberspace, nothing is more convincing than stating it. The results and achievements that Vietnam has achieved have been recognized and appreciated by international friends.

Vietnam has gradually improved its legal system, basically meeting the requirements set forth for the promotion, protection and development of human rights and citizens' rights, including the right to freedom of expression. For that reason, Vietnam was elected as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (term of 2008 - 2009), a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council (term of 2014 - 2016), a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council (term of 2014 - 2016). United Nations Economic - Social Organization (term 2016 - 2018), member of the Executive Council of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (term of 2015 - 2019). According to the election results at the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly announced on June 7, 2019, Vietnam received 192/193 votes in favor, far exceeding the minimum milestone of 129/193, officially being elected in 2016. the seat of a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for the term 2020  -2021. These are the most convincing evidences that affirms that there is freedom of speech in Vietnam and opposes those who intend to sabotage the country by means of things. ""free speech"" is full of hatred, evil, and lack of grounds...

While the world situation is complicated and unpredictable in many aspects, the socio-economic development, attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) of Vietnam has always achieved the top growth rate compared to other countries. countries in the region and around the world. In particular, in the first 9 months of 2019, GDP increased by 6.98% - the highest increase in the past 9 years. Inflation continued to be controlled at a low level, an average increase of 2.5% in 9 months - the lowest increase in the past 3 years. Total social investment increased by 10.3%, especially the non-state sector accounted for 45.3%, up 16.9%. Realized FDI capital is the highest in recent years, estimated at 14.2 billion USD, up 7.3%. State budget revenue increased sharply (10.1%), overspending fell to 3.4% of GDP, public debt remained below 57% of GDP... These are convincing figures of economic development. - Vietnam's society, as well as a favorable, safe and attractive investment environment for foreign investors, especially the emergence of more and more large economic groups in the world...

For a long time, the saying ""half a bread is still bread, but half the truth is not the truth"" has been very familiar and widely accepted in the world. This is not debatable. And with the press - media, one of the most important principles in its operation is to reflect the objective truth, respecting the truth in an absolute and complete way. Therefore, the fact that reactionary objects and organizations take advantage of, in the name of ""half-truths"", cropping to paint, embellish, add, etc., according to their imaginations and scenarios. Pre-set, intentionally created, it is clear that it is a lie, swindle, deliberately distorting for the purpose of anti-evil.

In the spirit of nation building, it is clear that every Vietnamese has the right to express his patriotism, to give suggestions and criticisms to the guidelines of the Party, policies and laws of the State... But Free speech, indiscretion, distortion, incitement to cause trouble, destruction of property, and violation of the law are condemnable actions that need to be promptly prevented and dealt with severely. Because people who know how to obey the law are people who are fully aware of freedom. If you can consciously control your behavior, then you will be truly free. Freedom is a human right, but it is not an arbitrary, arbitrary, anarchic freedom, but it is only guaranteed when people properly perceive the objective law and act in accordance with the law. agreements and agreements on the freedom of the collective, the community, and the society.

Admittedly, in any country in the world, there are always certain limitations and weaknesses, besides progress and development, due to specific conditions. The problem is that each country will have to recognize and overcome those limitations in a timely, thorough, comprehensive, drastic manner... to always create a good environment for development and progress. sustainable, avoid being misrepresented, distorted, taken advantage of to attack or destroy... In Vietnam, through recent events, it can be seen that people also need to be mobilized and propagated. raise awareness about freedom properly, clearly define responsibilities and obligations of citizens, know right - wrong, good - bad, build - destroy, ... to equip themselves, protect themselves against those who take advantage of patriotism, take advantage of people's frustrations to incite destruction. It must be made clear to the people that freedom does not mean being arbitrary, indiscriminate, doing whatever you want. True freedom of expression reflects cognitive capacity and self-control in both speech and action. After all, the right action is an accurate measure of the true value of free speech. Can't say ""freedom of source""opinions” but actions destroy the freedom of others, social freedom. Freedom only expands in step with improving people's understanding of the laws of nature, society and human thinking. race, so that they can control themselves and act freely. Freedom is formed and exists in the relationship between the individual and society, the individual and the State. Patriotism needs to be shown with a proper attitude, calm, restrained, controlled, etc. so as not to repeat extreme acts of destruction, destruction or destruction of property of the State and organizations. , domestic and foreign enterprises, going against the right guidelines and policies in socio-economic development of our Party and State.

Some immediate solutions...

Faced with new developments on the ideological front, on October 22, 2018, the Politburo issued Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW on strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation, fighting to refute the views of the Communist Party of Vietnam. wrong, hostile in the new situation. Then, on March 25, 2019, the Secretariat issued Plan No. 14-KH/TW to implement Resolution No. 35. According to Plan No. 14, the implementation of Resolution No. 35 should be associated with continued continue to thoroughly grasp and organize the implementation of relevant Party resolutions, directives, conclusions and regulations. As for the matter against taking advantage of ""free speech"" to arbitrarily ""free speech"" to entice, incite, cause riots and subversion of hostile and reactionary forces, we would like to propose Some basic solutions are as follows:

Firstly, soon consolidate the building of specialized forces in the direction of being lean and strong enough in the spirit of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW. At the same time, bring into full play the responsibilities of Party committees and organizations at all levels, first of all of the leaders in protecting the ideological foundation of the Party, fighting against wrong and hostile views. The specialized forces are the key people and pioneers in the consistent, synchronous and effective implementation of the objectives, viewpoints as well as the tasks and solutions stated in the Resolution No. 35-NQ /TW, with short-term, long-term plans, short-term, medium-term, long-term roadmaps and unexpected cases in accordance with the actual situation in a flexible, scientific and appropriate manner.

The formation of a specialized and elite force in all fields, to be able to promptly detect and expose the plots and tricks deliberately caused by hostile forces, reactionaries, and political opportunities and fight against them. fight against dark conspiracies in many different ways, both in the mass media, as well as in cyberspace, helping the majority of people understand the nature of information, and be immune to it."" ""free speech"" is unethical and illegal, and recognizes and understands the malice of extremists, agitators, and anti-saboteurs...

Second, the agencies and units assigned to the task are responsible for strengthening the propaganda of the contents of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW, Plan No. 14-KH/TW on a regular and creative basis. scientific, easy to remember, easy to understand, avoid hard, cliché, dogmatic, difficult to come to life. It is necessary to propagate widely and practically 4 regular tasks in the Plan No. 14-KH/TW have been clearly defined, which are: Promote propaganda, increase positive information; to step up research and perfect the theoretical system on socialism and the road to socialism in our country in the new situation; renovating and improving the quality and effectiveness of the dissemination, fostering and updating of political theory knowledge; strengthen management, educate cadres and party members, strictly handle violations... At the same time, all levels and functional sectors need to promptly provide accurate and objective information to fight opposing and directing public opinion against information contrary to the Party's guidelines, policies and laws of the State, helping grassroots committees have timely orientation...

Third, continue to perfect institutions and policies, especially on international integration, economic development, social justice, etc. to create a solid foundation and foundation to contribute to promoting development. country development. Only then will we not create ""gaps"", ""gaps"" for the formation, arising and existence of ""interest groups"", corrupt officials, corruption and negativity in society. .. Besides, it is necessary to promote the positive results achieved in socio-economic development in recent years, to create momentum for the next breakthroughs, with the expectation of achieving outstanding achievements. more prominent in promoting growth momentum, improving living standards, ensuring social security for people, shortening the development gap between regions and regions throughout the country...

 Fourth, step up the fight against corruption and negativity from the central to local levels, avoiding the situation of ""above hot, under cold"". It can be affirmed that the fight against corruption and negativity in recent years has achieved many positive results, regaining the confidence of the majority of the people in the Party's leadership and management. gorvernment's. Obviously, this is the problemThis is an important issue that is a great concern of the entire Party and people, so we cannot be hasty and make mistakes. But also because of that, it is impossible to ""slow down"", indispensable in directing and implementing, especially speeding up the progress of verification, investigation and handling of serious corruption cases. , complex, people interested.

Fifth, to build and set up a system of synchronous, coherent and effective propaganda solutions on the mass media and in cyberspace, contributing to early identification and proactive struggle. , effective against all offensive and destructive tricks of hostile forces. Press agencies need to organize more balanced information, increase information on positive and good aspects of society, avoid information imbalance, and make hostile and reactionary forces rely on them. and in the name of ""free speech"" to distort and slander the country with grayscale... The press agencies need to increase the amount of time for columns fighting to protect the ideological foundation of the Party. At the same time, it is necessary to form and maintain effective operation of information pages on social networks, especially on social networks. The social network Facebook is organized scientifically, methodically, with a team of professionals in charge to promptly, proactively identify and fight methodically, scientifically, accurately, persuasively and effectively against conspiracies, tricks and counter-actions of hostile and reactionary forces...

Sixth, it is necessary to promptly detect and identify to fight and punish saboteurs hiding in the name of ""patriotic"", ""human rights"", ""claiming justice for the people"" to incite and create seeds of rioting, subversion, ... in all different aspects and forms. It is necessary to isolate, isolate and properly identify the reactionary, sabotage, agitator, mastermind in each case and incident, as well as have deliberately committed violations for a long time, systematically to bring them to serious trial. before the law...

That way, the ""free speech"" in Vietnam will not be taken advantage of, misrepresented, distorted, or arbitrarily convey the ""free speech"" in order to entice and provoke insecurity and disorder. then, gradually, with the strong resistance of all classes of people, that cheap, hateful, dissenting ""free speech"" came to be. no longer viable and destroyed, returning a healthy environment for genuine freedom of expression, for the sustainable development of the country"	
"The truth behind the guise of taking advantage of freedom of speech and press freedom

Enemy forces, political opportunities, and discontent at home and abroad in the name of ""democracy and human rights"" try to make excuses to change white for black, saying no to yes, yes to no about the reality of freedom speech and press freedom in Vietnam today. At the same time, they thoroughly took advantage of the unbiased, honest and unfaithful assessment of some foreign news agencies and presses about the situation of freedom of speech and press freedom in Vietnam to slander. Vietnam violates democracy and human rights in order to lower our country's position and reputation in the international arena.

To achieve the goal, they established a number of organizations in the name of the press such as: ""Reporters Without Borders"", ""The project 88""... to fight for the so-called ""prisoners of conscience"", ""prisoners"" politics"", giving false rankings of press freedom in Vietnam and some countries, slandering Vietnam to stifle freedom of speech and freedom of the press. Putting pressure on the release of those arrested by the authorities for violating Vietnamese law such as: Tran Thi Tuyet Dieu, Pham Chi Dung, Nguyen Tuong Thuy, Le Huu Minh Tuan, Pham Doan Trang, Le Trong Hung, Tran Quoc Khanh, Truong Chau Huu Danh, Nguyen Thanh Nha, Doan Kien Giang, Nguyen Phuoc Trung Bao… Deeperly, taking advantage of the name of fighting for ""press freedom"" to gather forces and form political groups. anti-government organization.

It is necessary to affirm that Vietnam is a responsible member of the international community, we abide by international law, including Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. and expression; including freedom to hold opinions without interference, as well as freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers”.

The Declaration is still valid, has great human meaning, is always adhered to, inherited and developed by the State of Vietnam in each situation. Going back in history, on November 9, 1946, the National Assembly approved a Constitution consisting of 7 chapters and 70 articles, in which, the right to freedom of speech is constitutionally stated in Article 10: “Vietnamese citizens have the right to: Freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence, freedom of movement in the country and abroad.

Inheriting the provisions on freedom of expression from the first Constitution, the Party's documents, the 1959, 1980, 1992 and 2013 Constitutions all affirmed and realized the right to freedom of speech and freedom of speech. by citizen journalism. Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution clearly states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”.

In order to ensure freedom of speech and press freedom, the National Assembly of Vietnam has promulgated the Law on Access to Information and the Amended Press Law in 2016. In which, Article 3 The Law on Access to Information stipulates: “All citizens are equal, without discrimination in exercising the right to access information; the information provided must be accurate and complete; the provision of information must be timely, transparent and convenient for citizens; The State creates favorable conditions for people with disabilities, people living in border areas, islands, mountainous areas and areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions to exercise their right to access information. Article 10 of this law also stipulates that citizens have the right to freely access information disclosed by state agencies and at the same time to request state agencies to provide information.

As for the citizen's right to freedom of expression in the press, which is stipulated in Article 11, the revised Press Law: “Expressing opinions on the situation of the country and the world; participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for organizations and individuals”.

Article 13 clearly states: “The State creates favorable conditions for citizens to exercise their right to freedom of the press, the right to freedom of expression in the press and to let the press play its rightful role; press and journalists operate within the framework of the law and are protected by the State. No one may abuse the right to freedom of the press, the right to freedom of expression in the press to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and citizens; uncensored press prior to printing, transmission, and broadcasting”.

Thus, since the birth of our State until now, the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press has always been respected, guaranteed and increasingly enforced in life, creating conditions for citizens to speak up. speak their minds, contribute their talents, wisdom and efforts to the cause of national construction and defense. Simultaneously with the protection, respect and guarantee of the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press, it is an expression of the strictness of the law; not allow organizations and individuals to take advantage of their freedom to exercise their freedom in excess of the law, with nefarious interests, and against the values ​​of freedom of speech and freedom of the press.

Talking numbers

By the end of 2020,Vietnam has 41,000 active employees, 779 press agencies (including 142 newspapers, 612 magazines, 25 electronic press agencies), 72 agencies licensed to operate broadcasting and television with total 87 radio channels and 193 transmission channels. Vietnam is also recognized as one of the countries with the highest Internet growth and usage rates in the world. Information technology and social networks have been widely used in life and activities in Vietnam.

According to the report ""Mobile application market 2021"" released by Appota, Vietnam has about 70% of the population using mobile phones, of which 64% of subscribers have 3G and 4G connections. The percentage of the population using the Internet also accounts for 70%, the number of users using the Internet via mobile devices accounts for about 95% and on average they have 3 hours and 18 minutes to use the Internet via mobile devices. This is quite an impressive number, proving that smartphones are being prioritized as the main connection device thanks to their convenience and popularity.

The number of Facebook users in Vietnam (in 2020) is 69,280,000 people, accounting for 70.1% of the population. The quality of Internet access in Vietnam basically meets the standards, some parameters are higher than those published by international systems. This reflects the efforts of Internet service providers in Vietnam to serve the needs of Internet users. Waves of major news agencies and newspapers such as CNN, BBC, TV5, NHK, DW, Australia Network, KBS, Bloomberg... are easily accessible in Vietnam.

The above evidences show that, undeniably, great and solid achievements in ensuring freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Vietnam and the proactive implementation of national commitments in a serious and effective manner are undeniable. to ensure freedom of speech and freedom of the press in which Vietnam participates. Let the Vietnamese people judge for themselves the reality of exercising their right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press, because no one else, each Vietnamese citizen is an insider. Where is the limit, responsibility, obligation?

Distorted and slanderous statements that do not come from the voice of the people, do not represent the people, are not by the people and for the people, how can they be called objective, how can the voice of democracy be expressed as what it is? hostile forces, political opportunities.

Obviously, freedom of speech, freedom of the press all have certain limits, not excessive freedom. We welcome constructive ideas and practical contributions to the cause of national construction and defense; at the same time condemn and criticize ideas with the intention to sabotage the renovation and development in our country."	
"If the Law on Cybersecurity is passed and takes effect, Vietnam will have a standard legal framework to protect its sovereignty, independence, national security and social order and safety in cyberspace.

In recent days, before, during and after the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity and the announcement of the President's Order on this Law, domestic and foreign public opinion was very concerned. However, hiding under the guise of ""free speech"", taking advantage of the Party's policy of ""Appreciating the role of scientific research agencies in consulting, criticizing, and assessing the society in policy making. , the Party's guidelines, the State's policies and laws, and economic, cultural and social development projects""[1], opportunists and hostile forces at home and abroad. there are tricks to distort the Cybersecurity Law for the purpose of causing information chaos, creating mistrust and bad public opinion in society; thereby, distorting the correct guidelines and policies of the Party and State on promulgating laws. Therefore, it is very urgent to identify and fight against the distortion of the current Cybersecurity Law.

1. Identify allegations that distort the current Cybersecurity Law

Firstly, opportunists and hostile forces at home and abroad think that our promulgation of the Cybersecurity Law is a temporary measure of our Party and State to deal with dissenters. political opinion. It is not difficult to recognize those false and out of place claims of foreign news agencies, press and domestic political opportunists ""like poisonous mushrooms after the rain"" of BBC, RFA, VOA, RFI stations. ... Typically VOV Vietnamese with a series of articles full of distortions such as: ""A movement to disobey the Cybersecurity Law"" ... and on the internet, social networks, there is some information that the Law on Cybersecurity Law ""Invasion of privacy""; “infringement on freedom of speech and civil rights”; “robbing people of the right to use the internet” and restricting international relations, restraining the development of Vietnam? Are these things true?

The truth is not so! It must be affirmed that the development and implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is a major undertaking and policy of our Party and State in the new situation. Right in the Document of the 12th National Congress, our Party advocates: ""Actively struggle to defeat all plots and counter-actions of hostile forces; preventing and opposing false information and claims, repelling crimes and social evils; ready to respond to traditional and non-traditional security threats; ensuring security, information safety and network security”[2], especially in the context that “the international community has to deal more and more drastically with traditional and non-traditional security challenges, especially especially cyber security and new forms of warfare”[3]; Meanwhile, “Security, social order and safety in some areas are still complicated. Protecting state secrets is still weak. The work of ensuring safety, information security and network security is still inadequate”[4]. Therefore, the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity to further institutionalize the 2013 Constitution and the Resolution of the 12th Party Congress to perfect the legal system on cybersecurity with all for the sake of The goal is to protect the legitimate rights and interests of all citizens, for the stable development of Vietnam and in accordance with international law. Therefore, the above false claim is not only theoretically ambiguous, but also reactionary in practice.

Second, they think that the contents of the Cybersecurity Law are very vague and that no country has this law. According to the Vietnam Military Encyclopedia: “Security is a state of stability and safety, with no signs of threatening the existence and normal development of individuals, organizations, each field or of the world. the whole society… Maintaining comprehensive security is a condition for comprehensive development”[5]. Article 2, Clause 1 of the Law on Cybersecurity affirms: “Cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, rights and interests lawful organizations and individuals"". Thus, in terms of terminology - network security - in terms of its content, it has shown the necessity to issue and implement this law.

Their claim that “no country has this law”! This is yet another fabrication based on conceptual swapping. To date, 138 countries have had Cybersecurity laws including topical laws and regulatory provisions scattered among other laws, and many of those laws are much stricter than those of Vietnam. On December 7, 2015, parliamentarians and member states of the European Union (EU) reached an agreement on the first Cybersecurity Law applicable to the whole bloc: “According to the above law, service providers Online services such as: Google and Amazon will have to report any serious violations to national authorities or they will be fined. The new law, titled ""Information and Cybersecurity Guidelines,"" sets out strict security and reporting requirements for companies operating in key sectors, such as transportation, energy, and logistics. quality, health and financeing. Companies operating on the Internet such as: Google, Amazon, eBay and Cisco will have to report serious violations to national authorities or they will face sanctions from these agencies.”[6 ].

In Germany, the Ministry of Justice attaches great importance to cyber security. They give clear instructions to Facebook, if it is not well managed so that people can incite violence, curse online, and misrepresent it, they will be severely punished from Facebook managers to those who speak out. The Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz (NetzDG) ​​Act was passed in the middle of last year but officially took effect on January 1, 2018 after a 2-month extension for social network service providers to develop speech prevention tools. inciting hatred [7].

Or in Korea, using social networks to launch insults at a certain ""idol"", you will soon receive a lawsuit from the famous character's management company. Thus, the argument that ""the contents of the Cybersecurity Law are very vague and no country has this law"" is a fabrication, completely contrary to what is in fact.

Third, they believe that foreign network companies will not provide user information at the request of the Vietnamese Government - playing ""own rules"". This is also a fabrication because every year, Facebook has a database report for the governments of the countries that are their markets. A total of 103 countries and territories, including Vietnam[8]. And after the Law on Cybersecurity was officially passed by the National Assembly, the Facebook representative in Vietnam said that Facebook's activities were not affected in Vietnam. Moreover, Facebook is completing legal procedures to prepare to establish a representative office in Vietnam; help Facebook operate better, as well as coordinate better with the Vietnamese Government in the future. And so far, Google, Facebook and some other carriers still operate normally in Vietnam as well as not intends to withdraw from a potential market like Vietnam. Thus, the above argument is completely baseless.

2. Raise vigilance, smash reactionary thoughts, provoke and cause trouble

First of all, we need to continue explaining, propagating and clarifying the contents of the Cybersecurity Law so that all classes of people can understand and grasp it, and each citizen should raise their vigilance against insidious conspiracies and tricks. poison of hostile forces. Resolutely smash some extremists' claims to incite and cause trouble, take advantage of democracy to oppose good guidelines and policies of our Party and State, including the Law on Cybersecurity. . At the same time, raise awareness and actively implement a number of specific contents and tasks as follows:

Firstly, among those who have little understanding of Vietnamese law and international public law, especially the Free Trade Agreements (AFTA) that Vietnam has signed with countries within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO). World Trade Organization (WTO) or the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). However, so far, the world has never had a concept that considers cyberspace as a commodity, but only units of information transmitted and received in cyberspace are goods measured in Bytes, Megabytes, Gigabytes. , Tetabyte.v.v. The Vietnam Cybersecurity Law does not have any provisions on taxing import and export of information units, but only regulations on copyright protection for information content. And this regulation is consistent with the provisions of WTO, CPTPP on intellectual property.

Second, are those who are using cyberspace, even though they have not committed acts of infringement on network security, or have no acts of infringing upon national security and social order and safety, but are still afraid of being exposed. personal information, worried that carriers will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. To answer these concerns, they did not look to the official document of the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly, but instead received false information, distorted information, misrepresentation, even misinformation. even fabrications emanating from the media apparatus of forces hostile to Vietnam. Since then, they have had inappropriate reactions.

Third, the forces hostile to Vietnam have fiercely opposed the passage of the Cybersecurity Law and are now fiercely opposed to bringing the Law on Cybersecurity to life. Because with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, from now on, hostile forces that oppose the State of Vietnam and go against the interests of the Vietnamese people are no longer allowed to act on their own in cyberspace. and the so-called ""freedom on the internet"" to spread information that is against the State of Vietnam, harmful to Vietnam's national security and social order and safety. That is the real cause of the frenzied actions against Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law.

This frenzy has been evident since the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly of Vietnam began to discuss and plan to pass the Law on Cybersecurity. Conspiracy ofThese forces are taking advantage of people's ignorance of the law to deceive and rely on anti-Vietnamese forces abroad to fabricate and distort the Law on Cybersecurity. Their ultimate purpose is to ""abolish Vietnam's legal weapons"" so that they can blatantly infringe upon Vietnam's sovereignty, independence, national security and social order in cyberspace, and grossly interfere. daring to enter Vietnam's internal affairs...

In this anti-war campaign, the hostile forces not only through their henchmen in the country incited people to gather illegally and destroy the State's property, but also provided spiritual support to the people who were living in the country. That serious violation of the law with content that is false, distorted, fabricated, slanderous, etc. In fact, many misrepresented and fabricated news and articles about Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law are published. published with a dense frequency of dozens of articles a day on BBC Vietnamese, VOA Vietnamese, Vietnamese RFA, etc., as well as the websites of the Viet Tan terrorist organization, of the so-called National Government provisional Vietnamese delegation in the US led by Dao Minh Quan. It is a fact that following the Vietnamese government's declaration that Viet Tan and the Provisional National Government of Vietnam are two terrorist organizations, a number of websites of reactionary groups have been removed by the network owner. . Most recently, there is no need for Vietnamese law enforcement agencies to intervene, but only patriotic Vietnamese facebookers to report to the Facebook network operator about the act of spreading information inciting violence posted on websites. Facebook ""Viet Tan"" and ""Patriot Diary"", the owner of the social network Facebook has temporarily deleted these two pages...

Fourthly, in addition to those who oppose Vietnam politically and harm Vietnam's national security, those who commit fraudulent acts to appropriate property, launder money, traffic in people, trade drugs, trading in banned goods... and other illegal acts on the internet can no longer self-manage, causing damage to consumers.

Subjects who are unreasonably concerned about the Law on Cybersecurity can use methods of persuasion, education, and explanation to make them understand properly. As for those who fiercely oppose the Law on Cybersecurity, it can be seen as acts against the affirmation of Vietnam's rights, independence, national security and social order in cyberspace. Those are acts of treason. With the Law on Cybersecurity being passed and taking effect after half a year, Vietnam will surely have a standard legal corridor to protect its sovereignty, independence, national security and social order and safety. in cyberspace."	
"Cyberspace is no longer ""virtual""

According to MSc Luu Duc Quang, lecturer at the University of Economics and Law, VNU-HCM, social network users are currently facing many challenges in exercising their right to freedom of expression.

If only using vulgar language is just a violation of morality, but deliberately fabricating or spreading false information… is breaking the law. Therefore, each person needs to equip themselves with knowledge to avoid infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of other individuals or organizations.

If we detect acts that show signs of infringing on rights, we should calmly choose an appropriate course of action, limit quarrels and swear words in cyberspace, which can easily lead to loss of control, even breaking the law. It is necessary to be aware that behavior in cyberspace is no longer ""virtual"" because the legal responsibility is real.

The Cybersecurity Law regulates the use of social networks, but it is not a universal key to solving the problem. Therefore, when individuals and organizations show signs of being violated, they have the right to carry out legal procedures to protect them, but state management agencies cannot ""start"" the legal process on behalf of those who have been harmed. insiders, unless it is an invasion of the public interest. This is not only due to the nature of ""rights"" but also because of the overload in collecting and evaluating evidence if the responsibility falls on the authorities.

From the perspective of public administration, the Ministry of Information and Communications needs to focus on perfecting two processes, namely, the internal handling process of enterprises providing cross-border information services to the user behavior of social networks and related services. mandarin. This process can make suggestions to suit the reality of our country. Second is the handling process of public authorities when receiving reports of violations from entities on the principle of ensuring the highest rights of individuals, harmonizing the interests of enterprises with law enforcement capacity. of public authorities.



Defendant Tran Thi Ngoc Nu was tried by the People's Court of Binh Thuan province for disturbing public order on March 18

for the act of livestreaming, cursing in court. Photo: PN

Adjust rules and regulations

Analyzing the phenomenon of offensive livestream in cyberspace from the perspective of freedom of speech, Dr - lawyer Pham Hoai Huan (Ho Chi Minh City Bar Association) said that it is also a form of freedom of speech but goes beyond that. beyond the scope of the law and will be punished.

The problem here is to determine whether that statement is a statement that violates the law or not, because it is not necessarily a harsh statement that offends some people.

When determining the nature of new statements, how to deal with them? We will have many options, from criminal, administrative sanctions to court requests for apology, correction of information and compensation for damages. Put in that overall, the Law on Cybersecurity is just one of the possible options out of the many options we have.

Managing the digital space is a must. The problem is that the approach to state management of the digital space also shows how our approach to freedom of expression is. From empirical observations, I believe that there are two basic sources to regulate the behavior of individuals and organizations in the digital space: State regulations and rules set by service providers or platform created.

We will see in some countries that the authorities have influenced service providers so that they must meet certain standards, not allow certain content to appear... for certain reasons. This control must be carried out on the principle of due diligence. After all, these rules when put into practice, it will affect people's freedom of speech for better or worse depending on the content of the rules."	
"The show Facing March: Identifying tricks to misrepresent human rights achievements has helped the audience to clearly identify distorted, libelous voices, unmask those behind and uncover malicious plots.

Human rights are natural, inherent human rights recognized and protected in national laws and international legal agreements. In Vietnam, since the establishment of the Communist Party of Vietnam and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam until now, the whole Vietnamese political system has always strived to ensure human rights at the highest possible level.

However, there are objects and organizations that work day and night against, distort, and smear our country in all aspects, including human rights issues.

Taking advantage of the difficulties of ethnic minorities to distort

Vietnam is a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural country with 54 ethnic groups. Ethnic groups regardless of majority or minority, high or low level of development, have equal rights and obligations and are guaranteed by the Constitution and laws. Reality has made that clear.

However, it is the multi-ethnicity that has been tried by reactionary objects to deepen and cause division, typically with false, fabricated, and slanderous information that the Party and State of Vietnam violate the rights of the Vietnamese people. ethnic minority.

Allegations have emerged from the past decades such as: slandering the Vietnamese Party and State of ""brutal repression"", depriving the people of their human rights; Ignore objective difficulties to inflate the gap between rich and poor.

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 1.
False, fabricated and slanderous information that the Vietnamese Party and State violate the rights of ethnic minorities

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 2.
Even the bad actors said that ethnic minorities in Vietnam have no freedom, no right to land, or in short, no rights at all.

A society of rich people, a strong country, democracy, justice and civilization. This is the whole goal that the Vietnamese people are aiming for when they insist on the path to socialism.

The roads connecting mountainous areas, clean water works in the highlands, boarding schools exclusively for the children of the country... demonstrate the concept of ""a truly developed society for people"", to leaving no one behind.. not for economic benefit.

However, there was a time when bad forces took advantage of these good things to carry out anti-corruption schemes.

According to research by human rights experts, there are several main tricks that hostile forces often use to oppose the regime on issues related to ethnic minorities.

That is to take advantage of the objective difficulties of ethnic minorities; take advantage of some backward customs and practices of local people; citing unsubstantiated reports of international organizations on the human rights situation in Vietnam.

The most dangerous thing is that they identify the concept of the right to self-determination, which is the right of the nation and nation, with the right of ethnic minorities to incite and entice people to demand the establishment of their own state, and to sabotage the great bloc. national unity.

Inciting division of ethnicities and religions

Last month, the YouTube account of the exiled reactionary organization Viet Tan spread a clip claiming that the government was harassing a mass in Vu Ban, Hoa Binh. Many Facebook accounts followed the claim that the government arranged the police to suppress it. With provocative words, they exaggerated that the Party committee and government infringed on religious freedom.

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 3.
Viet Tan incites, inflates that the government infringes on religious freedom

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 4.
As the person present at the pastoral meeting on February 20, Ms. Dao Thi Vu said that in fact, only the Secretary and Vice President of the town, as the local Steering Committee for epidemic prevention and control, came to suggest that the church do the work. comply with regulations to ensure the safety of people. The truth has been distorted with malicious intent.

Pictures of the activities of the inter-agency force to prevent and control the epidemic in Yen Lam commune, Ham Yen district, Tuyen Quang province were posted by foreign websites with oppressive words.

The incident happened in December last year, when this locality discovered that the driver carrying Duong Van Minh's body home from the hospital was positive for SARS-CoV-2. Duong Van Minh is the head of an illegal organization named after him that distorts the lines and policies of the Party and State, inciting secession to establish an autonomous Mongol state.

Obviously the truth is not what it is supposed to be. At that time, it was the rule to trace and send F1 people to quarantine.

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 5.
In Vietnam, citizens have the right to freedom of belief and religion; All religious are equal in front of the law. Respect and ensure the activities of religions but like many other countries, Vietnam does not accept the use of this issue to distort, inciting separatism, dividing ethnic groups and religions, disturbing public order, and infringing upon national security.

Using children and people with disabilities to cover up anti-discrimination claims

Along with attacking the rights of ethnic minorities, hostile subjects also made false accusations about the implementation of children's rights in Vietnam. Children are not only a large force of the present, but also a human resource and the future owner of the country. Taking advantage of children's rights is easy to create reactions and frustrations in society.

The most common tactic is to inflate individual events, even objective ones, to blame the whole institution. Like Radio Free Asia, from the drowning of children, they released the statement ""Vietnamese children have lost their right to life"".

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 6.
The Viet Tan terrorist organization took children to cover up the anti-crime argument

Regarding some cases of violence and sexual abuse, the terrorist organization Viet Tan hummed: ""A good institution is not reflected in whether children can live a decent life and are strictly protected."" .

Such is the erosion of Vietnam, but these individuals and organizations ignore other realities, showing a double standard. For example, 1 in 5 children in Europe is the victim of some form of sexual abuse; or in a country where gun ownership is legal, in 2020, more than 5,100 children and young people under the age of 17 are killed or injured. Let's admit that the dark side and the defects always exist, even in the most law-abiding, most democratic institutions.

Therefore, if you evaluate, be comprehensive, objective, not distort, lead public opinion with dark intentions, sooner or later it will be brought to light.

Attacking children's rights is not enough, opposition forces even ruthlessly put people with disabilities out to cover their anti-defamation claims. Back to the time when the COVID-19 epidemic was still complicated, in Ho Chi Minh City, a self-immolation occurred. Immediately, the hostile subjects said, ""Fighting the epidemic or fighting the people"" and this is the case of people burning themselves to protest against the government's anti-epidemic method. In fact, this is a case of people setting themselves on fire due to a neurological disease that cannot control their behavior.

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 7.
Anti-epidemic forces people set themselves on fire to protest against the government's anti-epidemic method, but in fact, people set themselves on fire due to mental illness.

Or at the same time, Human Rights Watch, using a free foreign document, translated it into Vietnamese, meaning that Vietnam must do this and that to protect people with disabilities.

However, although the document states a lot of things to do for people with disabilities, the most important thing is to give them the COVID-19 vaccine, there is no line. Meanwhile, the Vietnamese government has given millions of vaccines to people with disabilities.

Or as suggested: Need information in sign language on TV for people with disabilities. Please tell me that Vietnam has been doing this for nearly 2 decades, it does not need to be taught to start doing.

And there are many other examples showing that, in Vietnam, despite many difficulties, ensuring the rights of people with disabilities has always been made efforts. Because in Vietnam, there is a saying: No one is left behind in the development process.

Why is the ""human rights"" tactic used so much?

Despite Vietnam's achievements, the ""human rights"" card is still used by objects to distort all aspects of life such as Vietnam's failure to protect children's rights, violating the rights of ethnic minorities. numbers and rights of people with disabilities.

It is not enough, when the Vietnamese State fights against the COVID-19 epidemic, protects people's health and lives, they accuse them of violating human rights. Stop the activities of cults, illegal religious organizations... that violate human rights. Then try those who violate Vietnamese law, also violate human rights. The accusations of exploiting human rights are repeated so much that it is ridiculous. But why is the human rights tactic used so much? The answer is simple, this is one of the most dangerous attacks.






The accusations of exploiting human rights are repeated so much that it's ridiculous

One notable trick is the awarding of prizes and titles to domestic audiences. Some examples are human rights awards, or press freedom awards. But in fact, behind this award are a number of organizations in the name of human rights, creating their own awards whose criteria is that the thicker the anti-corruption record, the more likely they are to be awarded.

As a result, most of the nominees and awardees, coming from many countries and territories, are the same people whose activities are against the national and national interests of their countries.

Along with advocating for those who violate the law, unscrupulous human rights organizations continuously slander and smear the Vietnamese Party and State in the field of human rights. As the latest report of the, inciting separatism, dividing ethnic groups and religions, disturbing public order, and infringing upon national security.

Using children and people with disabilities to cover up anti-discrimination claims

Along with attacking the rights of ethnic minorities, hostile subjects also made false accusations about the implementation of children's rights in Vietnam. Children are not only a large force of the present, but also a human resource and the future owner of the country. Taking advantage of children's rights is easy to create reactions and frustrations in society.

The most common tactic is to inflate individual events, even objective ones, to blame the whole institution. Like Radio Free Asia, from the drowning of children, they released the statement ""Vietnamese children have lost their right to life"".

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 6.
The Viet Tan terrorist organization took children to cover up the anti-crime argument

Regarding some cases of violence and sexual abuse, the terrorist organization Viet Tan hummed: ""A good institution is not reflected in whether children can live a decent life and are strictly protected."" .

Such is the erosion of Vietnam, but these individuals and organizations ignore other realities, showing a double standard. For example, 1 in 5 children in Europe is the victim of some form of sexual abuse; or in a country where gun ownership is legal, in 2020, more than 5,100 children and young people under the age of 17 are killed or injured. Let's admit that the dark side and the defects always exist, even in the most law-abiding, most democratic institutions.

Therefore, if you evaluate, be comprehensive, objective, not distort, lead public opinion with dark intentions, sooner or later it will be brought to light.

Attacking children's rights is not enough, opposition forces even ruthlessly put people with disabilities out to cover their anti-defamation claims. Back to the time when the COVID-19 epidemic was still complicated, in Ho Chi Minh City, a self-immolation occurred. Immediately, the hostile subjects said, ""Fighting the epidemic or fighting the people"" and this is the case of people burning themselves to protest against the government's anti-epidemic method. In fact, this is a case of people setting themselves on fire due to a neurological disease that cannot control their behavior.

Human rights card - the malicious attack of the opposing forces - Photo 7.
Anti-epidemic forces people set themselves on fire to protest against the government's anti-epidemic method, but in fact, people set themselves on fire due to mental illness.

Or at the same time, Human Rights Watch, using a free foreign document, translated it into Vietnamese, meaning that Vietnam must do this and that to protect people with disabilities.

However, although the document states a lot of things to do for people with disabilities, the most important thing is to give them the COVID-19 vaccine, there is no line. Meanwhile, the Vietnamese government has given millions of vaccines to people with disabilities.

Or as suggested: Need information in sign language on TV for people with disabilities. Please tell me that Vietnam has been doing this for nearly 2 decades, it does not need to be taught to start doing.

And there are many other examples showing that, in Vietnam, despite many difficulties, ensuring the rights of people with disabilities has always been made efforts. Because in Vietnam, there is a saying: No one is left behind in the development process.

Why is the ""human rights"" tactic used so much?

Despite Vietnam's achievements, the ""human rights"" card is still used by objects to distort all aspects of life such as Vietnam's failure to protect children's rights, violating the rights of ethnic minorities. numbers and rights of people with disabilities.

It is not enough, when the Vietnamese State fights against the COVID-19 epidemic, protects people's health and lives, they accuse them of violating human rights. Stop the activities of cults, illegal religious organizations... that violate human rights. Then try those who violate Vietnamese law, also violate human rights. The accusations of exploiting human rights are repeated so much that it is ridiculous. But why is the human rights tactic used so much? The answer is simple, this is one of the most dangerous attacks.






The accusations of exploiting human rights are repeated so much that it's ridiculous

One notable trick is the awarding of prizes and titles to domestic audiences. Some examples are human rights awards, or press freedom awards. But in fact, behind this award are a number of organizations in the name of human rights, creating their own awards whose criteria is that the thicker the anti-corruption record, the more likely they are to be awarded.

As a result, most of the nominees and awardees, coming from many countries and territories, are the same people whose activities are against the national and national interests of their countries.

Along with advocating for those who violate the law, unscrupulous human rights organizations continuously slander and smear the Vietnamese Party and State in the field of human rights. As the latest report of the"	
"Now, the Internet and social networks have become tools that empower individuals like never before to express themselves in front of society. But never before have there been so many social and legal problems in managing information in cyberspace.

Typically, over the past year, the online community has been stirred up by a rich, talkative businesswoman who regularly livestreams commenting on social issues. Those livestream content partly provided useful information to the community for some cases. But besides that, there are countless offensive statements, insulting the honor and dignity of others.

This woman was arrested based on the denunciation of some artists, but in reality, the number of people who were insulted and insulted in the livestreams was much larger.

Offensive livestream phenomenon: Freedom of speech must be within the framework of the law - Photo 1.
The businesswoman constantly makes offensive statements, insulting the honor and dignity of others

Commenting on this individual on the program Today, lawyer Nguyen Tien Lap, Arbitrator of the Vietnam International Arbitration Center said: ""People will be surprised because this is a quite successful person. In terms of material things, in terms of fame, people have had everything but it is still lacking for them. Maybe such people find another value like fame and they succeed. reputation is often associated with scandal. People like to turn themselves into a social figure. Obviously there is an element of loss of control here.""

Public opinion has many different, even contradictory views on this phenomenon, even forming wars of words, online denunciations, and destructive attacks on state media.

Regarding the social impact of this phenomenon, lawyer Nguyen Tien Lap analyzed: ""First, the groups of people that she directly attacked is a personal injury. But for society, opinion mine is a disturbed society, a lost time and a mind, a divided society. This is very dangerous in terms of social impact, split into two camps, sparring with each other, dividing in each other. group, in each family and to a larger extent in interaction, public space, online, it is even divided in evaluation of the system, morality, society... Very many people have changed themselves without knowing it, becoming insensitive to human pain, unable to distinguish right from wrong, right from wrong, healthy and unhealthy anymore. quite negative"".

In cyberspace, words do not fly

Over the past 10 years, when social networking has exploded in Vietnam, the number of users has skyrocketed, now accounting for nearly 74% of the population. In fact, it has become a second life for most people. Offensive, defamatory statements that offend others are like garbage that has existed for a long time, only recently have been identified and condemned more strongly.

Swearing when commenting on games, cursing when livestreaming sales, even famous people such as businessmen, singers, actors ... are also caught up in the vortex of obscene and hateful statements.

Offensive livestream phenomenon: Freedom of speech must be within the framework of the law - Photo 2.
Offensive livestream phenomenon: Freedom of speech must be within the framework of the law - Photo 3.
Obscene, hateful statements appear a lot on social networks

Freedom of speech is protected by law, even in cyberspace. Lawyer Nguyen Tien Lap said: ""The right to freedom of speech derives from a fundamental right which is human freedom, freedom of thought, freedom of action. Many people demand that freedom. The law does not provide a specific stipulation, but there is a general principle. Whatever you do, it's your freedom, as long as it doesn't infringe on the similar rights of others.Every civilized person must understand that concept of freedom so that he can determine for himself the space and limit of his actions. When interacting on the Internet in Vietnam, it's very difficult to distinguish the boundaries right now... We still have to discuss and learn how to interact in such space.""

""Abusing democratic freedoms is a very general concept, but there are two specific layers here. The first is violating the privacy of others' privacy. The second is acts of offensive language. to honor and dignity"" - Lawyer Nguyen Tien Lap emphasized.

We have had a code of conduct on social networks for more than half a year. But the line between expressing opinions and slandering and bringing down others is sometimes very thin, and only those who are victims can fully understand the destructive power of deadly words in cyberspace.

In 2021, the Ministry of Information and Communications sanctioned 210 administrative violations with a total amount of more than 1.8 billion VND for inappropriate speech on social networks. Management measures are also increasingly tightened.

Freedom of speech is one of theg basic human rights should be respected and guaranteed. However, in any country, freedom of speech must also be within the framework of law and social morality. Because in cyberspace, words do not fly, the consequences can remain forever. Just like the old saying: ""One hundred years of stone stele will wear out, a thousand years of beer mouth will still be inert."""	
"Currently, activities in cyberspace have become increasingly complex, and without a solid legal framework to control and regulate, in the near future, this environment will become uncontrolled, directly affect users in both material and spiritual aspects and beyond, that is property, national security, social order and safety.

Therefore, most newspapers expressed the view that a legal framework is needed to control the existing inadequacies that have long been seen on the Internet environment, especially social networks. A situation in which many people use the common language is ""riot"".

It can be said that there has never been a time when false information, which offends individuals, insults the organization, provokes, violates the law, causes social disorder and safety, has been so widespread as it is today. With the explosive speed of the Internet and social networks, dealing with these behaviors is currently ineffective. And the fact that social networks spread misinformation about the last two bills, inciting people to protest, has shown the need for a separate law for the online environment. It is a legal shield for the cyber environment, as many countries have been doing.

In the face of huge losses worldwide because of cyber security holes, many countries around the world have taken measures to build a strict legal system. Europe's first cybersecurity law went into effect on May 9. Indonesia and Singapore have established specialized cyber agencies. Japan has enacted the Basic Law on Cybersecurity. The US already has regulations on cybercrime, Australia passed the Data Disclosure Law, and China passed the Cybersecurity Law last year.

Accordingly, at the meeting on Tuesday, the National Assembly deputies approved the draft Law on Cybersecurity, which, according to many opinions, should have been sooner when Vietnam was one of the 7 fastest-growing countries in the world. fastest growing internet, social network in the world."	
"One of the important goals of the Law on Cybersecurity is to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace. This comes from the fact that insecurity and information security in cyberspace has been putting Vietnam in front of risks that threaten security, sovereignty and national interests.

Currently, there are many risks that threaten national sovereignty in cyberspace such as: subjects using social networks to propagate false information, slander, oppose the State, sabotage ideology, and divide armed forces, inciting people to participate in mass gatherings, causing disturbances and insecurity...; criminals cause high-intensity cyber attacks, causing paralysis, disruption and destruction of important national information systems, especially high-tech weapon systems operating and commanding systems, important military and industrial infrastructure systems...; hijacking important national systems such as electricity, energy, transportation, aviation or information security products originating from abroad can lead to uncontrolled incidents of safety standards. information security"	
"In an interview with Sputnik news agency, Director of the Ho Chi Minh Research Institute of Saint Petersburg State University in Russia, Professor Vladimir Kolotov noted that cyberspace is the sovereign domain of any country, no different. territorial sovereignty, airspace sovereignty and territorial sea sovereignty. Moreover, cyberspace is a place where many hostile acts are no less dangerous than actual actions in real life. According to Professor Kolotov, any country has two paths: to establish order, regulate cyber sovereignty by laws, or sell this space or hand it over to outside forces. Commenting on Southeast Asia, where a number of countries are active sites of terrorist organizations, Professor Kolotov said that cyberspace is where terrorists exchange information with each other. He warned that many terrorists are even better equipped than some countries in the region in terms of cybersecurity.

Assessing Vietnam's cybersecurity problem, Professor Kolotov said that based on the International Index of Cybersecurity, Vietnam ranks 100th in the world. According to him, the low level of network security has led to unfortunate incidents. Therefore, Mr. Kolotov said that the opposition to the application of the law on cybersecurity is abetting the country's poor state of security in the field of cybersecurity. This puts at risk not only the sovereignty of cyberspace, but also the actual sovereignty of the country.

Professor Kolotov also said that the passage of this law does not violate or interfere with free speech. The Law on Cybersecurity covers something completely different, which is related to the infrastructure of the Internet. This is not a matter of information, but of the management of metadata, that is, information about information. Once the law comes into effect, no one will read the private communications of users of the global computer network, there simply isn't enough memory to do so. Laws similar to the one just passed in Vietnam in the context of cyber warfare are being deployed in many countries around the world, with the aim not to infringe on the rights of citizens, but on the contrary. protect their own interests. Similar laws have also been passed in Russia and in many countries around the world."	
"Although the names are different, the main content of the Cybersecurity Laws of different countries is to improve the information security situation of businesses and public authorities, as well as better protect people in the environment. Internet.

In Europe, Germany has a regulation on Cybersecurity Law very early. In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law to better protect citizens and businesses in the digital era.

German Cybersecurity Law requires companies and federal agencies to have minimum cyber security standards and to be certified by the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI). Companies must also notify the Office of suspected cyberattacks on their systems. The law is relevant to sectors deemed national ""critical infrastructure"", such as transportation, healthcare, water, telecommunications providers, as well as financial companies and insurance. In the new law, there are specific articles and clauses for internet users, such as the prohibition of plotting to use violence to subvert national security, and the prohibition of instigating criminal acts. In addition, the new law forces telecommunications providers to warn customers when they are attacked by hackers, providers must store data about access history for up to 6 months for investigation.

As a country moving towards becoming a smart nation, Singapore's Cybersecurity Law enacted in 2017 allows the country's Cybersecurity Authority to monitor and manage the nation's cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Authority is authorized to take proactive measures to protect critical information infrastructure and rapidly respond to threats and incidents. The Singapore government has listed 11 sectors as critical information infrastructure, including water, healthcare, maritime, telecommunications, information, energy and aviation. In addition, Singapore also signed a joint statement with Germany to strengthen cybersecurity cooperation between the two countries."	
"Yesterday (June 12), the National Assembly officially passed the Law on Cybersecurity with a majority of delegates in agreement. This is an important bill, which is interested by the National Assembly deputies and a large number of voters and people across the country.

The biggest goal of the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly is to build a healthy cyberspace, ensure national defense and security, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals and agencies in and around the world. abroad, while contributing to economic development.

The Law on Cybersecurity provides for activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; The responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals stipulate principles of cybersecurity protection, including: Complying with the Constitution and laws, ensuring the interests of the State, and the legitimate rights and interests of the organizations. organizations and individuals, ensure human rights and citizens' rights, and create conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace.

The law also prohibits the use of cyberspace to conduct acts of organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Vietnam; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities.

Why do we need to enact the Law on Cybersecurity?, this question has been asked by many people. And there are many reasons pointed out such as: Vietnam is always in the group of countries with the most cyber attacks in the world. Cybercriminals such as terrorism, money laundering, online fraud, gambling, gambling organizations, prostitution brokers, arms and drug trafficking, etc. develop rapidly. Information disturbance in cyberspace, misrepresentation, libel, slander, insult to dignity, violation of fine customs and traditions is rampant. This fact shows the necessity of the Cybersecurity Law.

According to some experts in the field of information technology, it is unlikely that the Cybersecurity Law will seriously harm the Vietnamese economy or that Vietnamese businesses will fail due to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law as in the opinion of the Vietnamese government. some people on social media recently. The representative of the drafting agency affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity will not generate sub-licenses, hindering the development of enterprises, but on the contrary, businesses can also reduce costs if businesses place content servers in Vietnam."	
"With 423 delegates pressing the button of approval, accounting for 86.86% of the total number of delegates, at 9:57 am on June 12, the National Assembly officially passed the Law on Cybersecurity. The Law on Cybersecurity provides for activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals, in response to urgent requirements in protecting national security, social order and negative impacts on the economy.

The report of the Ministry of Public Security shows that Vietnam is the country most affected by cyber attacks in the region. The estimated damage to the Vietnamese economy in 2017 is VND 12,300 billion. Increasingly sophisticated attack techniques, in which: theft related to intellectual property violations, malicious code distribution, attacks using advanced technology such as artificial intelligence or encryption, are developing. complex development. In that context, it is urgent to build a legal framework on information security for people and businesses, ensuring harmony between the interests of the State - businesses and consumers.

The content of the Cybersecurity Law, in addition to regulating issues of social order, according to the Institute for Policy Research and Development of Digital Media, the regulations will regulate and directly affect 3 groups of businesses. : Group of manufacturing and trading equipment, technical solutions and network security; Fintech (Fintech) financial services business group; The group provides solutions, digital content services and technology solutions.

Officially implemented on January 1, 2019, the common desire of the law drafting unit as well as the business community is that the Law on Cybersecurity will effectively come into practice, protecting the right to freedom of business, creating a safe, healthy environment, harmonizing the interests of the State and businesses, in the spirit of building and contributing to the upcoming legal documents to be reasonable and strict, businesses and investors shared their recommendations."	
"A report by the Cybersecurity Department of the Ministry of Public Security shows that Vietnam is the country most affected by cyberattacks in the region. From 2016 to now, there have been tens of thousands of cyber attacks targeting our country's information system. That is not to mention the Internet is used to propagate, distort, incite activities against the State, insult personal dignity, fabricate information harmful to the economy and finance. Therefore, developing and promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity is an urgent task as a legal basis for fighting, preventing and handling.

One of the issues that the public is most concerned about is that when this Law is enacted, all personal accounts of users will be monitored by the authorities. However, information technology experts believe that personal accounts will be better protected when the Cybersecurity Law is enacted.

Faced with concerns of the information technology business community about the risk of generating sub-licenses and hindering business development, the Ministry of Public Security affirmed that this concern is unfounded. On the contrary, the Law on Cybersecurity will better ensure a healthy business environment for production and business enterprises.

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 Chapters and 43 Articles, which will serve as an important legal basis, helping the task force handle risks and challenges from cyberspace in a timely and effective manner. The law-making process has received constructive comments from experts, organizations and businesses to ensure its coherence and consistency with other laws. It is expected that the Law on Cybersecurity will be submitted to the National Assembly for approval tomorrow morning (June 12)."	
"On May 29, the National Assembly held a final discussion in the hall on the Law on Cybersecurity, which will be voted on on June 12. This is a difficult and complicated Draft Law, so the drafting agency and the verifying agency have listened, absorbed and carefully revised it.

The content of the Draft Law has been more condensed than before. There are many opinions about the need to enact this Law. Some regulations are believed to affect the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals involved. But if we put the interests of national security and social order as the prism to look at, we will see the need for a legal corridor.

Senior Lieutenant General Vo Trong Viet - Chairman of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee - guests at the set of the Today program on May 29 will give more details on this issue."	
"Through research, I found that the advantages of the Cybersecurity Law (ANM) are, first of all, the prevention and handling of information that affects national security, information that incites riots and disrupts security. … This is a barrier to prevent bad thoughts from affecting young people, helping young people see clearly the tricks of the forces that are always plotting to divide our great national unity bloc.

Article 8 of the ANM Law prescribes prohibited acts; in which, there is an act of misinformation causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals… I am interested in this law because it is the legal basis for filtering and excluding untrue information that has been spread on social networks in the past time. , affecting local security and order. Especially, cultural trends and deviant ideas have a negative impact on a large number of young people.

The ANM Law also creates a standard corridor for online speech, requiring young people to be responsible for their words, always alert and understand the nature of information when sharing comments on issues on social networks. . In my opinion, the ANM Law does not restrict the people's right to freedom of speech, everyone should speak to the right person, to the right job, to the right place and to be constructive; avoid slander, satire or use of freedom of speech for malicious purposes.

As Secretary of the Union, at the beginning of the school year, I deployed to the union members to fully understand the meaning, purpose and necessity of promulgating the ANM Law in the 4.0 revolution era."	
"Many people believe that everyone has the right to use telecommunications networks, computer networks, social networks - consider it an absolute right with no limitations. To protest against the Law on Cybersecurity, a number of articles on the websites of some political opportunists who oppose the Party and the State make the argument that this law does not bring any benefits to the country. people, both politically and economically, but only to help the corrupt people who have been pursued for more than two years have the ability to ""turn the flag"", to rise. Some of the articles written by these subjects also demanded the annulment of many articles of the Penal Code such as Chapter XI - on national security crimes, Article 79 (criminal of overthrowing the people's administration). is a political trick to distort the Party and State's lines, policies and laws; distorting the history of the revolution, slandering the leading comrades; undermining the relationship between the Party and the people; inciting national hatred; undermining the international relations of the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The law of our country as well as other countries stipulates that rights always go hand in hand with obligations. The Constitution and many laws of our country clearly stipulate the rights to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, including the right to use social networks and the right to access information. Therefore, more than ever, cadres, party members and people need to understand and master the provisions of the law on the right to freedom of expression and the right to access information; at the same time, raise vigilance with tricks of spreading virtual news on social networks, avoiding the situation of accidentally becoming lawbreakers and sabotaging the regime. Over the years, human rights and citizens' rights of the Vietnamese people are not only stipulated in the Constitution and laws but also guaranteed in practice. Many civil and political rights have been better and better guaranteed. Through many forms of provision, in addition to the domestic press system, Vietnamese people are also exposed to foreign television channels belonging to many major media companies in the world. In particular, the Internet is encouraged to use by the State, including newspapers and electronic magazines, social networks, electronic information sites... licensed to operate. Today, Vietnamese people can access news from major news agencies and newspapers in the world, so it can be affirmed that freedom of speech, press, and internet in Vietnam is denied. “strangled” as many self-proclaimed “dissidents” say. In 2016, the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam passed the Law on Access to Information (TCTT). This is a legal document specifying the right to freedom of speech and press in the 2013 Constitution. According to the provisions of the Law on Financial Information, the right to financial information is a right that can be restricted or is a conditional right. In particular, there are limited rights such as: ""Information belonging to the State secret, including information with important contents in the field of politics, national defense - security, foreign affairs..."" ; information that “if accessible, will harm the interests of the State, adversely affect national defense and security, international relations, social order and safety, social ethics, health community health…” (Article 6). Conditional access information, for example: “Information relating to a trade secret is accessible if the owner of the trade secret consents”… “Information relating to a life secret is accessible.” private life, with the consent of that person” (Article 7). Article 11 provides for prohibited acts, including: “Deliberately providing false and incomplete information, delaying the provision of information; information destruction; Forging information... Providing or using information to offend honor, dignity, prestige, cause gender discrimination, cause damage to property of individuals, agencies or organizations... "". This Law also stipulates the rights and obligations of citizens (in the field of information communication), which are the rights: “To be provided with complete, accurate and timely information; complaints, lawsuits and denunciations of violations of the law on financial information”. At the same time, citizens have the following obligations: “To comply with the provisions of the law on financial information; not infringe upon the lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations or other people when exercising the right to financial information”; do not falsify the content of information provided... It can be affirmed that the legal framework of the State of Vietnam on citizens' rights to freedom of speech, press and information media is basically complete, synchronous and fully compatible with international human rights law; respect and ensure human rights in general, freedom of speech, press and access to information in particular. In particular, clearly stipulate the rights, obligations and limitations of this right of citizens in specific cases, in order to protect the national - ethnic interests, the legitimate rights and interests of others. Facing the situation that many individuals and organizations use computer networks and telecommunications networks to violate the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals, Lawyer Ha Si Thang, Bar Association of Thanh Hoa province, said: These acts need to be strictly handled according to the provisions of the law. Article 288 (crime of illegally giving or using information on computer networks and telecommunications networks) Penal Code 2015 (amended and supplemented in 2017) regulations: A fine of from VND 30,000,000 to VND 200,000,000, non-custodial reform for up to 3 years or imprisonment from 6 months to 3 years for acts of posting on computer networks, telecommunications networks information contrary to the provisions of the law; buying, selling, exchanging, donating, repairing, changing or publicizing lawful private information of agencies, organizations and individuals on computer networks or telecommunications networks without permission of information owners Thereby, obtaining illicit profits, causing damage or causing bad public opinion, reducing the reputation of agencies, organizations and individuals. In case of organized crime; abusing the right to administer computer networks and telecommunications networks; large illicit profits (from VND 200,000,000 or more); causing great damage (from 500,000,000 or more); Infringement of personal privacy leads to the victim's suicide; adversely affect security, order, social safety or foreign relations of Vietnam, or lead to protests, may be subject to a fine of up to 1 billion VND or a prison term of between 2 and 7 years. In addition, offenders may also be banned from holding certain posts, practicing certain professions or doing certain jobs from 1 to 5 years."	
The Law on Cybersecurity was formulated in the context of thousands of cyber attacks each year targeting our country's information system, posing urgent requirements for cybersecurity work in protecting national security as well as national security. ensure social order and safety. The Cybersecurity Department, Ministry of Public Security (A68) said that in 2016 alone, there were more than 5,000 cyber attacks targeting information systems. The target of cyber attacks is on physical transmission infrastructure such as: international transmission cable, national internal transmission axis, core service infrastructure, Scada automation control system of facilities. important in terms of economy, defense and security. According to the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security, the cybersecurity challenges Vietnam has to face are serious such as taking advantage of cyberspace to infringe on national security, conducting air strikes, cyber terrorism, etc. undermining ideology, inciting protests, conducting cyber espionage, appropriating state secret information and documents. Meanwhile, Vietnam currently does not have a specific law on cybersecurity as a legal basis to fight, prevent and handle. The Committee on National Defense and Security also said that the Law on Cybersecurity will be an important legal basis, helping the task force handle risks and challenges from cyberspace in a timely and effective manner, especially situations of high-intensity cyber attacks and cyber-terrorism targeting information systems important to national security. After the discussion on the afternoon of October 25, this bill will continue to be studied and reviewed to ensure its rigor and consistency with other laws. It is expected that the Law on Cybersecurity will be submitted to the National Assembly for approval at the 5th Session.	
"With the rapid development of science and technology, cyberspace has become an indispensable component and plays an important role in building an information society and developing the knowledge economy. The explosive development of breakthrough technologies such as artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence), Internet of Things (IoThings), centralized database (Big Data), virtual reality connection (Virtual/Augmented) Reality), the sharing economies (Shared Economies), etc. have profoundly changed the cyberspace in both quality and quantity, which is expected to bring unprecedented benefits to human society, but also creates enormous potential risks. Many countries are well aware of the threats to cyber security, consider this a new challenge, a new threat of high importance and danger, so they have concretized it into policy documents and documents. legal documents such as laws or sub-law documents in more than 80 countries, organizations and international alliances such as the US, UK, Germany, Netherlands, France, Canada, Korea, NATO...


Illustration (internet source)

In our country, the strong application and development of information technology in all fields of life has greatly contributed to speeding up the process of industrialization and modernization of the country, economic, cultural and social development. society, improve the quality of health care and education, promote the People's creativity and democratic freedoms, and ensure national defense and security. However, cyberspace and some types of Internet services and applications are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to plot to conduct a ""color revolution"", ""street revolution"", ""revolution"" peaceful transformation” in order to abolish the political regime in our country. The state of posting false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale. , even affecting sovereignty, national interests, the nation, security and order. There are more and more cyber attacks with large scale and high intensity, increasing in severity and danger level, directly threatening national security and social order and safety.

Cyber ​​terrorism emerges as a serious threat to national security. Criminal activities in cyberspace are increasing in number of cases and sophisticated tricks causing serious economic damage, affecting ideology, culture and society. Reliance on IT equipment of foreign origin is a potential threat to cybersecurity in the event of a conflict. The system of legal documents on cybersecurity has not been completed, and current documents do not meet the requirements of preventing, fighting and handling acts of using cyberspace to infringe on national security. and break the law. The above situation and risk has posed an urgent requirement to develop and promulgate a Law on Cybersecurity to prevent, fight and handle acts of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, order and security. the whole society, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

The drafting process of the Law on Cybersecurity was elaborately and carefully prepared before submitting it to the National Assembly, with the participation of comments from ministries, functional agencies, more than 30 large telecommunications and information technology enterprises. domestic such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV; many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facabook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US-ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association; foreign representative agencies such as the US, Canada, Australia, Japan, etc. have widely contributed opinions of the people; there is a thorough examination by the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security; Council for Ethnic Minorities, specialized committees of the National Assembly and Standing Committee of the National Assembly. On June 12, 2018, the 5th session, the 14th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam officially passed the Law on Cybersecurity with the rate of 86.86% of the total number of National Assembly deputies present. decidedly agree. The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; preventing and handling acts of infringing upon national security in cyberspace; deploying national security protection activities in cyberspace and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

Immediately after the Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated with the high consensus of the majority of the People, but besides that, there were still some issues that a part of the public wondered, specifically:

Firstly, there is a concern that all personal information of citizens can be controlled by the Cybersecurity Law. Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to: responsible for providing user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security. Thus, the gliding forceg in charge of network security protection is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by competent authorities. Browser. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2015 and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of illegal acts. .

Second, the force dedicated to protecting network security may abuse its power in handling information that violates the law in cyberspace. Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: Those who commit acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for liability. criminal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law. In order to prevent the possibility of abuse of power by the specialized forces, Clause 5, Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity prohibits taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon national sovereignty, interests and security. family, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals or for self-seeking purposes. The implementation of cybersecurity protection measures specified in Article 5 will assign the Government to detail the order and procedures, strictly comply with the provisions of the 2013 Constitution and the current legal system. . Authorities only apply these cybersecurity protection measures to prevent, detect, collect evidence, fight and handle law violations. The collected data and information are managed according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2015 on evidence and other regulations on information security in accordance with the law on protection of state secrets.

Third, all businesses must store user data, and the regulation of user data storage may violate international commitments. According to the provisions of Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity, only domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploit, analyze and process Vietnamese user data. There are 18 countries in the world that require data storage in the country, depending on the actual situation, countries may require different types of data to be stored; if they violated international commitments, these countries would not have provided such provisions (1). In documents of WTO, CPTPP such as General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT 1994), General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Property Rights intellectual property (TRIPS) have a security exception provision, which states that “nothing in such documents shall prevent any Member from taking any action it considers necessary.” necessary to protect its essential security interests (2). Thus, it can be affirmed that Vietnam does not violate international commitments.

Fourth, the Law on Cybersecurity hinders the operation of enterprises and creates sub-licenses; regulations on setting up representative offices in Vietnam may hinder the operation of Google, Facebook, even they will withdraw from Vietnam. Of the 7 regulations related to the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in the Law on Cybersecurity, none of them are related to business activities of enterprises, nor are there any regulations requiring enterprises to provide services in cyberspace. requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sub-license to be allowed to operate. Regulations on office placement do not hinder the operation of Facebook and Google, because: Google and Facebook have rented servers in our country (3). Storing service user data in Vietnam helps these businesses save business costs, increase access speed and improve service quality; helping domestic carriers save money when they have to buy international bandwidth. Technically, data storage in the country is easily carried out when technology allows, especially the application of cloud computing technology and these enterprises already have experience and equipment due to similar application. in many other countries. At the same time, with more than 60 million Vietnamese people using Google and Facebook services, a huge market, bringing huge profits to them, so Google and Facebook will never withdraw from the Vietnamese market, In fact, right from the time of drafting the Law on Cybersecurity, they have actively met and consulted with the Law Drafting Board so that they can still operate in the Vietnamese market safely according to Vietnamese law. and still earn legitimate profits as well as pay taxes according to Vietnamese law, without being banned"	
"Cybersecurity law is necessary

According to the report, the cybersecurity situation in Vietnam in recent years has tended to increase and develop complicatedly, with many cyber attacks on the information systems of State agencies and large enterprises, causing many problems. affecting the interests of the country, national security and social order and safety.

In the past years, there have been many legal documents related to information technology, telecommunications and Internet, but no legal documents specifically regulating network security have not met the requirements. practical needs of network security work.

National Assembly - Vu Trong Viet

Mr. Vo Trong Viet, Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security

At the meeting, the majority of delegates said that it is necessary to promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity. Standing Committee of National Defense and Security agrees with the scope of regulation of the draft Law, because the management and operation of information and telecommunications infrastructure has been exploited by hostile forces to advance in the past time. carry out activities to attack, sabotage network information systems, infringe upon the independence, sovereignty, national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

Avoid overlapping, overlapping with current Laws

Sharing the same opinion as the majority of opinions of the National Assembly Standing Committee, however, National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan said that it is necessary to review the provisions of the draft Law to synchronize and avoid overlapping. overlap with other Laws; at the same time, it is necessary to analyze more deeply the current situation of network security to clarify the need to develop this Law project.

In addition, the National Assembly Chairman said that regulations related to human rights restriction must also be specified in this Law. Regarding regulations such as the national important information system, they should be more specific, avoiding generalities.

National Assembly Vice Chairman Uong Chu Luu said: This law relates to many promulgated legal documents such as the Criminal Code, the Law on Cyber ​​Information Security, the Basic Law, the Law on Science and Technology, and the Law on Technology. information… Therefore, it is necessary to carefully review the regulations to avoid overlapping and duplication. At the same time, it is necessary to clearly define the roles, functions and tasks of the Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security in the draft Law on cybersecurity.

Concluding the discussion, National Assembly Vice Chairman Do Ba Ty said that this is a difficult law project with many complicated contents, so it is necessary to carefully study and select the experiences of other countries to build. The Standing Committee of the National Assembly suggested that the Drafting Committee should absorb the comments, continue to study and complete the Law project, and submit it to the National Assembly for comments at the 4th session of the XIV National Assembly."	
"At present, reactionary and anti-sabotage elements continue to use distorting statements about the situation of freedom of information, freedom of the Internet, and social networks in Vietnam in order to oppose democracy, incite and divide the world. division in society, creating an excuse for outside forces to interfere in our country. They think that in Vietnam there is no freedom of information, freedom of social networks, social networks are strictly censored...
In Vietnam, social networks began to be introduced in the 2000s in the form of electronic diaries (blogs). To date, there are more than 300 different social networking sites registered and over 76 million social network users. In particular, Facebook is the most popular social network because of its convenient design for users when creating personal accounts, as well as the features of information exchange, expression of feelings, personal views with others. people in the same group, with the same interests... should have attracted many members to join. Following Facebook are My Space pages, Twitter, blogs…
With the operation mechanism of social networks with high interactive nature, ""netizens"" easily share personal information with each other, thus attracting an increasing number of participants, including young people. . This has created advantages for all members when participating in social networks, that is, being able to share as well as find necessary information to serve the individual needs of each person. However, in addition to the official, useful and educational information, there is also unorthodox, untrue, distorting, and advocating for a deviant lifestyle that is also posted on social networks with different purposes. Recently, the situation of using social networks to fraudulently appropriate property, slander, slander, incite, etc., has become increasingly complicated and sophisticated, causing social disorder and affecting prestige. credit, honor and work of cadres, civil servants and public employees in Kon Tum province. Only in the first 6 months of 2022, investigating agencies at all levels of the province discovered 8 cases of property appropriation fraud, of which 5 were carried out via the Internet. In addition, through the work of grasping the situation and recording information on dozens of cases related to crimes of fraud and appropriating property through telecommunications networks, social networks with new and increasingly new methods and tricks. sophisticated, causing great damage to people's property, causing frustration in public opinion...
Social networks have become the leading tool for hostile forces to take advantage of to destroy ideology; increasing the risk of revealing state secrets and social networks, having negative impacts on cultural development and eroding national cultural identity. Therefore, along with the development of social networks, it is necessary to have management to best promote the positive aspects that social networks bring.
The hostile forces have a one-sided view that in Vietnam social networks are suppressed and social networks do not have freedom of information, social network users are not allowed to express their opinions and thoughts. .. This is completely fabricated and untrue information, because our Party and State have always consistently advocated and maintained the policy of respecting and protecting basic human freedoms, including the right to self-determination. by information, Internet freedom. In fact, we have achieved achievements in economic development like today, partly because we make good use of opportunities from the Internet, it is the conditions for the free development of the Internet and social networks that have made an important contribution. important in national construction and development; this was already “an inevitable part” of social classes.
Through social networking sites, people can express their information and opinions; Not only that, there are many agencies and organizations in the political system from the central to local levels that have used the Internet and social networks to work, handle administrative procedures and directly contact the people. .. What is happening every day, every hour in Vietnam has proved that in Vietnam there is no suppression of social networks, but on the contrary, the free development is guaranteed by the Party and State. Exercising the right to freedom of the Internet, social networks are always placed within the legal framework. Thus, ensuring network security, preventing and stopping activities that take advantage of social networks and the Internet to violate Vietnamese law. Accordingly, over the past time, the State of Vietnam has implemented many solutions synchronously, such as: promulgating legal documents (Law on Press 2016; Law on Access to Information 2016; Law on Cybersecurity 2018; Law on Cybersecurity 2018). ; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP on management, provision and use of internet services and online information; Decree No. 174/2013/ND-CP stipulating penalties for administrative violations in the postal sector government, telecommunications, information technology and radio frequencies; Regulations on what Party members are not allowed to do...) to carry out the work of detecting, fighting and strictly handling those who take advantage of the Internet. , social networks violate the law. On October 26, 2021, the People's Committee of Kon Tum province issued Document No. 3855/UBND-KGVX requesting provincial departments, agencies and People's Committees of districts and cities to raise awareness,responsibilities of cadres, civil servants and public employees in using social networks… This is completely appropriate and not only in Vietnam but many countries around the world have done so. Even in the US, a country that considers itself a ""free country"", the National Assembly of this country has issued many legal documents to handle and prevent the use of the Internet and social networks to terrorize and incite violence. force or violate intellectual property... Therefore, in Vietnam, there is no repression of social networks, or illegal torture of any blogger. Obviously, behind the fabricated information is a political conspiracy of hostile forces to incite division in the great national unity bloc and deny the leadership role of our Party.
Recognizing wrong views that Vietnam has no democracy, human rights, no freedom of speech, freedom of thought, suppression of social networks, and giving scientific arguments to criticize and refute. Those wrong views are necessary. At the same time, through that, we also review ourselves, review the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and the State's policies where they have not been implemented well, and where they are not suitable to step by step perfect, in order to truly bring about positive results. legitimate rights and interests for the People. As President Ho Chi Minh taught: ""... The revolutionary party needs self-criticism and self-criticism just as people need air"", ""Every cadre, every party member, every day must self-criticize and self-reflect. Criticism, self-correction like having to wash your face every day. With that, there will be no diseases in the Party, but the Party will be extremely healthy.”"	
"First, it can be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity has absolutely no effect on people's right to freedom of speech. There is no law that provides regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using new network information like this. Never before has children's rights been so protected on online information. The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information. People are comfortable using the network to do activities that do not violate the law. There is absolutely no provision to impede free speech. Only individuals who give false, fabricated, or insulting information according to 29 articles of the Penal Code will be handled. It is not possible to threaten to kill people online and be free, but in reality, they will be punished; It is impossible to freely buy and sell weapons, explosives, detailed instructions on how to use them, but in real life, they will be handled but not online… Who offends the nation, sovereignty, religion, or who discriminates against gender on the Internet? …will be dealt with.

-Is it mandatory for businesses to disclose personal information to security agencies in violation of personal privacy protection?

+ Do not violate anything. Because there is article 17 of the Law already. Article 17 is very strict to protect the privacy of individuals and families. ""Enterprises when providing telecommunications services, internet and value-added services... are responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts, and keeping user's account information confidential."" Therefore, it is the responsibility of the business to maintain confidentiality. Failure to do so will be handled.

""Provide information to users in charge of network security protection upon written request to serve the investigation of violations of the law on network security"". In the event that the Law provides so, it will be provided. For example, when I see an online exchange of buying and selling explosives to prepare for terrorism, the involved party must definitely provide information for us to handle, otherwise a disaster will occur.

In addition, information will not be arbitrarily provided and must be treated as confidential. If you reveal that secret, you will be held responsible.

Right now a lot of our information is being leaked.

-But the sign of violation seems to be very vague, sir?

+ No ambiguity. This issue is referred to in 29 articles of the Criminal Law. If we detect signs of a bomb, we have to arrest it immediately. Information must be requested to verify if the person is true or just fabricated information. And after that, we can handle the law or handle it in another form.

And I believe that when developing this, the Committee on Defense and Security, the Law Committee of the National Assembly reviewed it very carefully.

-In the Law, there is a sentence that is quite vague. For example ""insulting great people"". So how to identify ""great man"", sir?

+ This must be appraised by relevant functional ministries. If the Ministry replies that there is a violation, we will be handled. For example, related to credit fraud, it is necessary to ask the State Bank and financial economic groups to determine whether there is a violation. There are a lot of people losing money and this has to be verified by a cybersecurity agency. We have to step by step investigate, verify and clarify whether it is subjective, objective, age...

Of course, no law is perfect. Someone asked me, ""Does this law prevent acts in cyberspace?"". I replied: ""Criminal Law is enacted, but murder is still there, robbery is still there"". Having a Cybersecurity Law is there to provide scope for what is protected and to know prohibited behavior for us to avoid. Even the agency in charge of cybersecurity must rely on this Law to know what is prohibited and what is allowed.

-From now until the decree is formulated, will the editorial board continue to listen to people's opinions, sir?

+ The editorial board always listens, always adjusts, always asks for the right content to be submitted. All decrees are commented by agencies, economic groups, and internet telecommunications groups. I affirm so.

-During the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity, did we work with Google…?

+ The draft Law on Cybersecurity was developed in November 2016 according to the Resolution of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister then issued a decision to establish a Drafting Committee. Members include many ministries and branches, not only the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Defense, etc. During the construction process, the drafting committee also followed Decree 72 on setting up servers and offices in Vietnam. Then, when submitting the Law on Cybersecurity at the 4th Session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly also asked how to adjust it to suit the recommendations of businesses and internet telecommunications corporations.

During the drafting process, the drafting board also had the opportunity to approach major telecommunications groups in the world such as Google, Facebook, Youtube, American Business Association, ASEANn.... Thereby to explain and listen to their opinions on our Cybersecurity bill. After the two sides worked and agreed, the representatives of those units agreed towill adjust their strategy accordingly. The corporations themselves, these units also see our adjustments and regulations as appropriate. It is completely unlikely that Google and Facebook will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. And certainly with a market share like that of Vietnam, currently 48 million Facebook accounts and will certainly be larger, so there is no such thing as rumors. There is absolutely no information about this."	
"Taking advantage of the people's inadequate knowledge and information about the Law on Cybersecurity, hiding under the guise of ""freedom of speech"", taking advantage of the Party's policy of ""appreciating the advisory and critical role of political parties"". scientific research agency in formulating the Party's guidelines and policies, the State's policies and laws on economic, cultural and social development projects"" (Document of the First National Congress of Deputies). 12th Party Committee), reactionary organizations, domestic and foreign opposers have propagated and distort the content of the Cybersecurity Law with the aim of causing information chaos, creating suspicion and bad public opinion in society, thereby inciting people to gather in large numbers, march, protest against the Law on Cybersecurity, causing insecurity and disorder. Their activities focus on: (1) Inciting people to take to the streets to protest against the Cybersecurity Law; (2) Organizing writing campaigns with content that distorts, opposes and opposes the Law on Cybersecurity; (3) Organizing campaigns to collect opinions and collect signatures of citizens to propose Party and State leaders; (4) Producing videos, clips and inviting people claiming to be technology experts and state management experts to comment with bad content about the Cybersecurity Law.

Immediately after the Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, activities against breaking the Law became more and more fierce, reactionary organizations and the number of opponents continuously organized themselves to record videos, clips, and quote false information. .

Although it has been carefully prepared and approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, because this is a law with provisions on prevention, combat and direct handling of activities infringing upon national security in the air. cyberspace, there are still doubts about the content of the Law. Therefore, bad actors have taken advantage of it to propagate, incite protests, and oppose the Law on Cybersecurity in order to steer public opinion in an unfavorable direction with the aim of obstructing or causing panic and suspicion in the law. the masses to the Party and State's policies on cyber security.

According to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are entitled to the following benefits:

(1) Be protected when participating in cyberspace activities against bad, malicious information, infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their lawful rights and interests. With the scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safer and healthier than before, minimizing factors and risks. opportunities to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: personal information theft, fraud, appropriation of property, slander, humiliation, defamation, restriction of malicious code , gradually eliminate gambling, betting, transmission of depraved cultural products inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace…; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.

(2) To participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training.

(3) Being given tools to protect their interests:

- Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity provides for the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing and removing information that violates the law, as well as request the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests.

- Article 17 of the Cybersecurity Law will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.

- Article 18 of the Cybersecurity Law helps protect people from cybercriminal activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts, etc.

- Article 19 of the Law on Cybersecurity gives tools to protect people from cyberattacks, such as spreading malicious code, denial of service attacks, etc.

- Article 26, Law on Cybersecurity ""reinforces"" more tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and Additional services on cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these people. At the same time, help protectProtecting people's personal information, personal secrets, avoiding being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data.

(4) Children with special protection in cyberspace: Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity prescribes the contents of protecting children in cyberspace. In which, it requires information system owners, enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace, agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers. caregivers and other individuals responsible for protecting children when children participate in cyberspace; requesting the specialized cyber security force to apply necessary measures to protect children's rights in cyberspace.

(5) To be protected by a specialized force for cybersecurity protection when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the task force is empowered to take necessary cybersecurity protection measures (Article 5), helping this force operate more effectively and efficiently, which means it will protect national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

(6) The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to important for the formation of a safe and healthy cyberspace.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not control all of citizens' personal information.

In the face of serious and complicated illegal activities in cyberspace, it is necessary to ensure the basis and conditions for quick and effective investigation and handling of the law enforcement force. necessary and urgent, including the responsibilities of domestic and foreign service providers. Information of individuals with illegal activities is one of the important types of data for law enforcement forces to investigate and handle violations of the law.

Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to: responsible for providing user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.

Thus, the network security protection force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by the relevant authorities. authorized to approve. Currently, there is a lot of information on the cyberspace that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information, private information to the authorities is incorrect. .

The Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request information. user.

The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not hinder the operation of enterprises, does not create sublicenses.

Of the 7 regulations related to the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in the Law on Cybersecurity, none of them are related to business activities of enterprises, nor are there any regulations requiring enterprises to provide services in cyberspace. requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sub-license to be allowed to operate.

Except for coordinating with the network security protection force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedy, handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to comply with any other obligations for their business activities. There is no provision on cybersecurity in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase, sale and business activities."	
"Responding to risks and challenges to national security, social order and human rights, the Party and State of Vietnam have adopted policies and laws to ensure internet security, social networks, and create favorable conditions. for agencies, organizations and individuals to exercise their rights. However, on the internet, social networks have people who misrepresent the goals and policies of the Vietnamese Party and State towards the virtual world environment. They believe that Vietnam has amended and introduced recent laws, especially the Law on Cybersecurity, to ""suffocate"" the right to freedom of speech (online); in Vietnam “no internet freedom…”; The goal of ""filtering network information"", including the Prime Minister's request for the early promulgation of the ""Online Code of Conduct"" and the Cybersecurity Law that allows the police to investigate and verify online accounts in violation of the law. breaking the law is a ""violation of the right to privacy"". However, the reality shows that these are just slanderous claims.

As the media reported, on September 23, 2018, the People's Court of Cai Rang district, Can Tho city had a first-instance trial against defendant Nguyen Hong Nguyen for the crime of ""abusing democratic freedoms to invade violate the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals”… (Article 331 of the Penal Code). According to the indictment, Nguyen Hong Nguyen used facebook with the account name ""Nguyen Hong Nguyen"" (pen name Bo Cong Anh). In order to make friends, Nguyen regularly accesses the internet to draft, post, and share on his personal page many articles, photos, and video clips with content defaming and defaming leaders of the Party, State, and President. Ho Chi Minh, distorting the lines and policies of the Party and State, causing bad public opinion in society.

Or the People's Court of Nghe An province tried Le Dinh Luong (on August 16, 2018) on charges of operating to overthrow the people's government. According to the indictment of the People's Procuracy of Nghe An province, Le Dinh Luong set up an account on MXH (facebook) to ""like"", respond, and share with other facebook accounts with inciting and enticing content. , attracting many people to Viet Tan to overthrow the people's government. Le Dinh Luong has published many propaganda articles, promoting the terrorist organization Viet Tan; distorting the State's policies and laws, slandering the Communist Party of Vietnam... Le Dinh Luong also took advantage of political, social, economic and environmental events to distort the truth and cause frustration among people. people, against the social system and the State.



Illustration: VNA.

The common characteristics of the cases against the social regime, the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in recent times are: In terms of content, the main crimes are distorting policies and laws of the Party and State; blackening the Communist Party of Vietnam, insulting the leaders of the working class (Marx, Engels, Lenin, President Ho Chi Minh); take advantage of complex social problems, polluted environment...; about the foreign policy of ""diversification"", ""multilateralization"" of our Party and State to falsely accuse Vietnam of following this country, leaning towards another country, betraying the interests of the nation... Fish In particular, there are groups of subjects engaged in armed activities, using bombs and mines to cause national insecurity and to overthrow the social regime, such as the case of Dao Minh Quan (crime of ""operating to overthrow the government"". people, by the People's Court of Ho Chi Minh City on August 22, 2018).

In terms of methods, it can be said that all criminals use the internet, social networks, especially facebook to gather, expand their forces, propagate and distort policies and laws of the Party and State... connecting domestic criminals with each other and with organizations and individuals against Vietnam abroad.

The birth of the internet and social media created a leap forward in the development of mankind in this day and age. It can be said that the internet and social media are the basis of the 4.0 technology revolution in areas such as artificial intelligence, robotics, internet of things, self-driving cars, 3D printing technology, and nanotechnology. .. With the internet, social media, humanity has a new world-virtual world, with a new ecosystem-digital ecosystem. It is a system of information in all fields, and is stored and easily searched on the Internet (Wikipedia page) along with many search engine sites, information exchange, correspondence (Google, Yahoo pages). , You Tube). On these websites, individuals can have online interactions anywhere, anytime.

However, in the virtual world - the digital ecosystem, it poses many challenges for humanity, the nation and the nation, especially in assessing the authenticity of online information, from simple things like buying online goods (with the right quality, design or not) to issues related to national security (such as the situation in the East Sea, Vietnam-China-US relations...); Socio-economic situation (cases of state agencies granting land use permits);... to privacy rights (male-female relations... marriage, family) are difficult to determine the authenticity of. authenticity of the information we receive or are interested in.

In other words, information in the virtual-online world is difficult to verify. This leads to bad guys who can take advantage of the internet and social networks for evil purposes, such as: Giving sensational informationn to sentence view, sentence like; giving information about private life due to narrow-mindedness, selfishness... Unfortunately, up to now, there are still many people who believe that the digital environment completely belongs to the individual, there is no law; or bad guys think they can use technology to hide their illegal behavior.

In the digital-virtual world, national security, social order and safety, and human rights face new challenges. If in the past national security was to protect the sovereignty of the land, sea, airspace, social regime, etc., today, it is also about protecting cyber security. The content of the law aimed at protecting national sovereignty and cyber security is: It is strictly forbidden to provide information for the purpose of organizing, operating, instigating, enticing and training anti-State people...; strictly prohibit acts of violating social order and safety (such as calling for mass gatherings, causing trouble, organizing gambling, forging websites of agencies, organizations and individuals...; it is strictly forbidden to attack the network (causing a technical crisis to destroy the use of the network)...

In the current context of the internet and social media, respecting and ensuring human rights has certain differences compared to past historical periods. The content of human rights today is broader than before, including the right to use the internet and social media. If in the past, the right to freedom of speech and press (in the group of civil and political rights) only had access to print, audio and video newspapers, today this right also includes the right to access, use the internet, social networks.

Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution of the State of Vietnam stipulates: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Institutionalizing the above regulation, the National Assembly has developed and promulgated many laws, such as the Press Law-2016; Law on Access to Information -2013; Decree of the Government on Management, provision and use of internet services and online information-2013; Law on Cybersecurity-2018…

International human rights law also stipulates that the right of peoples to self-determination is a collective right of human rights. Article 1 of the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: “All peoples have the right to self-determination. Stemming from that right, peoples freely decide their political institutions and freely develop their economy, society and culture”. is the right to choose the social system (socialist or capitalist…) as well as the right of states to decide on the law.

With regard to individual rights, the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights contains provisions on limitations of rights. Article 19 (on “the right to hold opinions” and “the right to freedom of expression”) specifically states: “The exercise of these rights “is accompanied by special obligations and responsibilities”, and “may subject to certain restrictions”, to: “(a) Respect the rights or reputation of others; b) Protect national security or public order, health or morals of society”.

Thus, provisions restricting rights in order to protect national security, public order and individual rights, such as: ""Abusing the provision and use of internet services and online information for the purpose of:"" Against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Disseminating information that distorts, slanders, offends the reputation of organizations, honors and dignity of individuals; ... (Article 5, Government's Decree on Management, provision and use of internet services and information information on the Internet)… or “Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; taking advantage of or abusing network security protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. “ (Article 8 Law on Cybersecurity)… is fully compatible with international human rights law.

In the context of the digital revolution, the subject responsible for national security and human rights is extended to the leadership of international carriers, including Google, Yahoo, Facebook... The carrier is cooperating with the state to remove and block accounts that give false information, contrary to national law.

During the meeting between Mr. Nguyen Manh Hung (then acting Minister of Information and Communications, now Minister of Information and Communications) and Mr. Simon Milner, Vice President of Public Policy in the region Asia-Pacific by facebook (September 14, 2018), both sides understand each other and express their goodwill. Mr. Nguyen Manh Hung wishes that “Vietnam and Facebook should become friends, for the prosperity of both sides.”[1]. Mr. Simon Milner also joked about the affection and responsibility of facebook: ""In some countries, we are just one of the brides, but here we are the chief bride"" and he pledged to ""cooperate closely"" chwill work with the Government of Vietnam to thoroughly resolve outstanding issues through the formation of a joint working group with Vietnam.”[2].

Thus, it can be said that all laws of the State of Vietnam as well as of other countries in the world protect the political regime and the state on the one hand, and on the other hand ensure human rights, public rights, and human rights. people. Without protecting the existing social system and state, it also fails to protect human rights, rights and interests of citizens."	
"Today, the rapid development of the internet has positively impacted the development of economy, education, health, culture, society, ... in many countries. However, the activities of many people when using the internet pose risks, directly threatening national sovereignty, order and security, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. This phenomenon occurs because the development of the internet has created a ""fertile ground"" for a new type of criminal operating in the cyber environment, using social networks as a means and tool to carry out personal intrigues. dark or illegal acts, causing severe consequences to many aspects of life. Especially, cyber attacks targeting security, defense, economy and culture in many countries are on the rise. With many sophisticated tricks, these subjects used high technology to spread malicious code to invade, attack the data system of the state headquarters; At the same time, from negative and dark motives, some organizations and individuals thoroughly exploit social networks to fabricate, distort, slander, spread fake news, etc. In the face of that fact, the issue of protecting national security and protecting the rights and interests of everyone in cyberspace has been concerned by many countries. attention, and has become a global issue.

According to recent United Nations statistics, there are currently 138 countries in the world that have enacted Cybersecurity Laws. Notably, in the past six years, 23 countries have enacted more than 40 legal documents and laws on cybersecurity. Although the names may vary from country to country, these laws have the common goal of creating a legal basis to protect the legitimate rights and interests of all citizens, as well as the activities of public authorities. organizations and businesses in the internet environment. At the same time, along with establishing regulations to help regulate behavior in cyberspace, the law also clearly stipulates sanctions to sanction cyber-security violations.

Vietnam and Southeast Asian countries are considered as dynamic countries with a high speed of developing internet applications, but they are also suffering heavy damage from attacks by criminals. implementation network. Specifically, in October 2017, the leak of personal information of 46 million mobile subscribers (regarding home addresses, national identification card numbers, SIM card information, ...) in Malaysia- sia has created a great shock in community life. According to experts, this risk has been warned since 2014. However, when it occurs in reality, the seriousness of the problem is fully realized. As for Singapore, in 2017 alone, the country suffered three major cyber attacks, in which hackers attacked the entire network of the Ministry of Defense. In 2018, Singapore continued to suffer a lot of damage caused by cybercrime, typically when hackers stole personal information of 1.5 million people.

In Vietnam, on October 30, 2019, the Department of Information Security (Ministry of Information and Communications) issued a coordination order requesting agencies, organizations and businesses to urgently scan and remove the files. malicious code information of a large-scale targeted attack campaign (APT) targeting Government agencies and important information infrastructure of Vietnam. More than 400,000 IP addresses were infected with more than 16 variants of malware in this attack. According to a recent report by CyStack Company (operating in the field of network security), in 2019 there were more than 560,000 attacks on websites globally, and Vietnam ranked 11th among countries with many websites. hacked around the world with more than 9,300 compromised websites. A series of such incidents shows that the protection of network security has become extremely urgent and global.

In the past 5 years, many Southeast Asian countries have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Law of Singapore, issued in 2017, allows the Cybersecurity Agency of this country to monitor and manage the country's cyber security. In January 2018, the Ministry of Law of Singapore issued a press release on the development of a new bill to combat the spread of fake news, under which the government will be given absolute power to control the spread of fake news. control all information on social networks and severely punish violating individuals and organizations. In February 2019, Thailand also officially passed the Cybersecurity Law. Accordingly, the National Cyber ​​Security Committee was established, in charge of the Prime Minister. Notably, Thailand's Cybersecurity Law stipulates that in critical situations (such as a serious cybersecurity threat) competent authorities are allowed to ignore court orders.

In Vietnam, the Law on Cybersecurity (regulations on activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals) approved by the National Assembly on June 12, 2018, and took effect from January 1, 2019. After one year of implementation, the Law has played an active role ing the implementation of measures to protect network safety and security, promptly prevent and handle violations of the law on network security. In 2019, about 8,000 videos with malicious content, hundreds of fake accounts, thousands of illegal sales and advertising links were removed. Many cases of using social networks to incite national hatred, call for protests against the government, and distort the lines, guidelines and policies of the Party and State... have been detected and handled appropriately. . People's awareness has been gradually raised. There are individuals who have previously loudly protested and attacked the Law on Cybersecurity, saying that the Law violates human rights, hinders democratic freedom and freedom of expression, but when they themselves become victims of crimes If they commit crimes online, these individuals are aware of the importance of the Law and must ask the authorities to intervene to protect themselves. In fact, the Law on Cybersecurity shows that people are not prevented from free speech, but they are free to express their opinions on social networking sites within the framework of the law, especially when their That idea towards protecting the community's interests, condemning negative behavior on social networks will be responded by the online community and have a strong pervasive effect. As a result, the situation of information disturbance in cyberspace has been gradually rectified, helping people to access healthy and useful information every day.

Recently, a topical issue that has attracted many people's attention is the situation of the Covid-19 epidemic. As of February 21, 2020, while the number of infected people in Vietnam is 16, over 170 individuals have been handled for posting false information about the epidemic on social networks, including: including celebrities. The timely and resolute handling of the authorities has been approved and supported by the public. Because the epidemic is not scary, if we stay awake and calm, fully equipped with knowledge and skills to prevent and treat the disease and take it seriously, the scary thing is believing in false and misleading information online. society, with the purpose of spreading confusion, fear, inciting negative behavior in the community. At the same time, thanks to the Law on Cybersecurity with the final entry of the relevant authorities and authorities, fraudulent acts on social networks such as taking advantage of the epidemic to increase prices, counterfeiting, etc. .. the medical equipment was also handled in a timely manner. By February 19, 2020, the authorities had handled more than 30,000 online (online) stores with nearly 48,000 infringing products. Before the determination of the authorities, many e-commerce sites with fraudulent behavior have automatically closed or adjusted their behavior.

The specific examples mentioned above have partly shown that when coming to life, the Law on Cybersecurity has played an important role in protecting people's legitimate rights, maintaining social order, and protecting social security. national security in the internet environment. To further supplement and support the Law on Cybersecurity, on February 3, 2020, the Prime Minister signed and promulgated Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP (effective from April 15, 2020). ) prescribes penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions. According to legal experts, along with the Law on Cybersecurity, the Decree will help promote more strongly the role of the law in general and the law on cybersecurity in particular, in detecting, preventing, handling violations in cyberspace. The beneficiaries are the people and agencies, organizations, enterprises, etc., on that basis, contribute to the protection of social order and safety.

However, it should be seen that, in order for legal documents to really play their role in practice, besides the participation of the political system, it is also necessary for the cooperation and companionship of all people, expressed by consciously complying with the law when participating in social networks, be cautious and alert before unverified information, promptly detect signs of fraud, fraud or false information to warn the community, promptly report report to authorities. That is a practical way for each person to protect themselves, contribute to protecting the healthy development of cyberspace, and protect the peace and development of the country. In particular, it should be recognized that this is not only a separate issue posed by the State of Vietnam, but all countries have specific laws to manage and handle all violations."	
"Many organizations and individuals voiced their responses in the name of international and non-governmental organizations, but this digital identity is not difficult to recognize. For example, Freedom House said that ""Vietnam continues to be an enemy of Internet freedom"" when it comes to the Law on Cybersecurity, giving many ""stormy"" views. So who is Freedom House, see the background to know the ""familiarity"".
Freedom House (ie ""free house"") is a non-governmental organization, established in October 1941, headquartered in the United States. The organization assigns itself the mission of ""monitoring the process of global democratization, surveying and studying the implementation of political and civil liberties in countries around the world"".
Freedom House also claims to be “a transparent voice for democracy and freedom in the world”! To demonstrate its mission, every year Freedom House publishes documents called reports on freedom in the world, annual reports on press freedom and Internet freedom. Worth mentioning, out of more than 200 countries and territories around the world, Freedom House chooses its own list to survey.

Many people took to the streets to gather and cause trouble due to the impact of provocative information
on social networks.
 
Many times, in its report on ""world freedom"", ""freedom of the press"", ""internet freedom"", Freedom House continues to consider Vietnam as a ""non-free"" country in the exercise of political freedom. administrative and civil.
Since its inception, Freedom House has been a propaganda machine created by the late President Roosevelt to prepare the American public for America's entry into the war in World War II. However, after the end of the second world war, Freedom House was not dissolved, but continued to be used to conduct propaganda campaigns, advocate for the Marshall Plan and NATO, and propagate propaganda. against Communism.
It is a fact that until now, most of Freedom House's operating funds are funded by the US Government, so it has become a tool of those who have spent money to operate under the guise of research, monitoring, promote freedom, democracy, human rights...
Therefore, the information that Freedom House gives about Internet freedom is imposed by bad ideas and intentions. Recently, Freedom House's 2017 Internet Freedom report in the United States said that Vietnam continues to ""sink deeper into the group of countries without Internet freedom"". They ranked Vietnam 7th, after China, Cuba... and depicted on the map with gray bars, indicating that the country has not changed in terms of Internet freedom.
The way Freedom House does it is similar to Human Rights Watch (HRW), which is to turn yes into no, no into yes, using lies to slander. Like Freedom House, every year HRW repeats its misrepresentation, accusing Vietnam of suppressing the right to freedom of speech, association, freedom of the press, and the Internet.
The characters that HRW cited for so-called ""repression of human rights"" also echo the list that Freedom House uses if the number of ""democrats and human rights activists"" is active in anti-social media channels. spread on the Internet. Supporting and accompanying Freedom House, HRW, there are many websites, newspapers, magazines, radio stations and press organizations such as Southeast Asia Press Alliance (Seapa), Reporters Without Borders Organization Reporters sans frontières (RSF)...
In their annual reports and reports, these organizations make false statements and assessments that the Vietnamese State violates freedom of the press, the Internet, suppresses the press, suppresses bloggers, and then deliberately ranks Vietnam Nam is on the list of countries with extremely low rankings in terms of freedom of the press, speech, and Internet... HRW, Freedom House cites cases of imprisonment and criminal punishment when taking advantage of the internet to commit crimes. offense.
The annual ""Press Freedom Index"" report of Reporters Without Borders said that freedom of the press and the Internet in Vietnam ""has not shown any signs of improvement"", people ""are not allowed to freely due to access to information” and Vietnam has become “the world’s second largest prisoner of bloggers and netizens”. Similar to the guise of Freedom House, together with the publication of the report, RSF took advantage of a number of media outlets that lack sympathy for Vietnam and are hostile to Vietnam to give interviews ""to deepen the understanding of Vietnam."" than” this report.
Born in 1985 in France, from the very beginning, RSF gave itself the right to promote freedom of the press and freedom of expression in the Western style. RSF is a name with no face that often distorts and distorts the situation of press freedom in Vietnam. Their way of doing things is also like no other, it is based on denunciations or articles of law-breaking objects and then chained and put on a list of condemnation of violations of freedom of the press, internet, and speech.
In fact, RSF operates not in the interests of journalists, who have been denounced in many countries. This organization is also accused of receiving a lot of support from American billionaire George Soros, who has supported the Solidarnosc union with millions of dollars, from the National Endowment for Democracy - an organization. 90% of the budget comes from the national budget of the US and belongs to the US Department of Stateey”.
Because of such financial dependence, RSF, Freedom House, HRW... all have the same motive and purpose of action. Therefore, until the next appointment, their reports and reports list dozens and hundreds of countries and territories around the world to evaluate ""in their own way"", thereby criticizing, only to the governments of the countries.
Therefore, it is not surprising that when the National Assembly passed the bill, RSF immediately called for ""revoking the Cybersecurity Law"". Daniel Bastard, head of RSF's Asia-Pacific office, said: ""We ask Vietnamese lawmakers to revoke this harsh new law, which has been instrumental in strengthening control. government for access to information”. “We also ask online service companies not to give in to the unacceptable threats posed by this law” he threatened!
Obviously, the truth of those of RSF, Freedom House, HRW... has been revealed for a long time, the same guise, tricks of fraud, deception and slander as before, although today's trend has changed a lot.
Along with such organizations, many individuals at home and abroad also have the opportunity to ""condemn"" the issue of cybersecurity, criticize the National Assembly and the State of Vietnam. It can be clearly seen that those who commit illegal acts, taking advantage of cyberspace to destroy the country, have been handled by the authorities in various forms.
This number has long used the Internet to write defamatory propaganda articles, in the name of ""civil society"", ""democracy and human rights"", ""defense of the Fatherland""... to form associations and groups with the name. Calls, slogans, principles, and purposes are easy to impress with the needs and tastes of certain classes and social sectors such as ""Civil Society Forum"", ""Prisoners of Conscience Association"", ""Association of Prisoners of Conscience"". Association of Women for Human Rights"", ""Association for Mutual Friendship"", ""Association of Independent Journalists""...
Their tricks are through websites, online forums, especially social networks to openly organize, propagate, deceive, entice people to participate, and use security software to communicate. , organize online training and training for the number of members, openly write petitions, demand the establishment of an opposition political party, request the establishment of an association or group, and demand lawsuits, slander, and misrepresentation of the State. We violate international treaties on civil rights…
Objects take advantage of loopholes in the law, negative issues, democracy, human rights, ethnicity and religion in the country to propagate, distort and plot to form and publicize organizations political opposition in Vietnam. Others are now following this thought and point of view, promoting and defending illegal acts of what they call ""dissidents"" such as: Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh, Nguyen Van Hai, Nguyen Van Dai, Dinh Nguyen Kha, Nguyen Phuong Uyen, Ta Phong Tan, Dinh Nhat Uy, Truong Minh Tam, Chu Manh Son...
With cyber security, a regulating law, directly affecting cyberspace - where the forces, organizations and individuals as cited above use as effective tools against Vietnam are like leeches. right lime, they react violently.
The problem is that we - the people who live and protect this regime, this country and this people must understand it properly, know the difference between right and wrong. But if you keep seeing people talking online, swearing online, saying that this law is nothing, this law covers the regime, pulls back history, this law strengthens dictatorship, is totalitarian... I don't know if the crab's head is narrow, so it's dangerous to join in.
Seen as it is, the current joining in like the wind in bamboo houses on facebook, blogs, and online forums is scary. How many people have read the bill, then when the National Assembly passed it, they saw every word in the law and saw the Internet swearing, they also joined in cursing, then shared articles, clips, mocking graphics everywhere, as if I enjoy something very good, but I don't know that it is a help to sow disaster, but first of all, it is in myself before talking about the disaster in people, the disaster for society and the country."	
"The rapid development of science, engineering and technology along with the strong digital transformation process in Vietnam has created strong development opportunities in all fields. The press is no exception, even playing the role of a mission to participate in all communication and digital transformation processes in order to synchronously change the perception and behavior of people and businesses in line with the goals of the digital transformation. change country number.

The opportunities are great but the potential risks are also many, especially for the media system in the digital age. One of them is the risk of insecurity and information security. The press agencies, especially those involved in the task of protecting the Party's ideology, often face-to-face with the plots and tricks of hostile forces will be their targets. focus on performing cyberattacks in order to sabotage the system, steal data, change content, interface of web pages/portals, etc. Therefore, the work of ensuring safety and security Information for these agencies is very important and needs to be deployed continuously, accurately, methodically, uniformly, synchronously and comprehensively.


Illustration
Situation of insecurity and information security in the world and in Vietnam

Information safety and security is the protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, interruption, modification or destruction in order to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and integrity of information. availability of information.

Around the world, attacks on information systems, especially on the Internet, take place continuously, with increasingly sophisticated forms and diverse scales, causing hundreds of billions of dollars in damage every year. . The number of cybercriminal groups is increasing with the support of economic and political organizations (eg groups Mustang Panda, Lazarus, APT1, APT30, HoneyMyte, ...).

According to the statistics of the security firm Kaspersky, in recent years, Vietnam is among the countries with the most cyber attacks; ranked 4 out of 10 countries at risk of being infected with malicious code online and 1 out of 10 countries infected with malicious code from using removable storage devices (USB, external memory cards).
Press and media agencies have changed very quickly in the digital transformation process and have applied many technological achievements to keep up with the development trend of society. However, the work of ensuring information safety and security has not been paid enough attention and investment. This has made media outlets frequently targeted by hackers. According to statistics in 2020, there were 156 attacks by 8 APT groups (should be explained) targeting organizations in Vietnam, of which the target audience is press and media agencies, accounting for 21% of the total number of attacks. attack.
Cyberattacks on press and media agencies will cause very serious and dangerous consequences, because this is the direct media agency, the extension arm of the Party, directly propagandizing and disseminating information. change the guidelines and lines of the Party, policies and laws of the State, ideological orientation, public opinion and criticism of public opinion, especially for the revolutionary press when performing the task of protecting the foundation. ideology of the Party, fight against wrong and hostile views.

When a press - media agency is attacked by hackers, it will lead to slow access speed or even system stagnation; Worse, the entire database will be stolen, deleted, the content changed with ""reactionary"" and ""false"" content. As a result, the international and regional recognition and assessment of the Party and State's policies and guidelines is erroneous; Social public opinion is turned upside down, adversely affecting socio-economic development, strengthening national defense and security, even stronger is losing national sovereignty, losing the socialist regime, lighter, the prestige of the agency Press authority will be affected, people's trust in the newspaper will decline. The stolen data will be used to exploit the truth or for other dark purposes. Altered or deleted data will make it very difficult for the governing body to return the system to normal operation.

Some cyberattacks that have had a big impact in Vietnam in recent times include:

VietNamNet newspaper suffered a distributed denial of service (DDOS) attack: In early 2011, VietNamNet newspaper suffered a DDOS attack on an unprecedented scale in Vietnam. The attack came from a network. giant caused tens of thousands of computers to be infected with viruses and take control. These computers simultaneously access the domain vietnamnet.vn, leading to the phenomenon of network bandwidth being overloaded, readers accessing Report VietNamNet will be network congested and error not found server.

Vietnam Airlines was attacked by hackers: In July 2016, there was an APT attack on VietnamAriline airline. The attacker displayed offensive images and content against Vietnam and the Philippines, distorting the South China Sea issue on airport screens.Noi Bai International Airport and Tan Son Nhat International Airport. At the same time, the radio system at the airport broadcast similar messages.

As a result of the attack, 100 flights were delayed, the information of more than 400,000 passengers was stolen and distributed online.

In early May 2020, the website of the Department of Home Affairs of Hai Duong province sonoivu.haiduong.gov.vn was attacked by hackers, posting an article with the content of instructions on playing gambling games.

It can be seen that websites, press agencies and media are increasingly becoming ""favorite"" targets of hackers with many different purposes, including political purposes. Imagine, our revolutionary press, with the task of protecting the ideological foundation of the Party, fighting against false and hostile views; is a means of propagating, disseminating and raising awareness for cadres, party members and people of all walks of life when being attacked by cyber attacks, having data stolen, changing or editing propaganda-oriented content. , guidelines, policies, ... then what will be the consequences. Therefore, it is very necessary to strengthen technical and technological solutions in ensuring information security and safety.

The work of ensuring information security and safety for the system of press agencies in Vietnam today
Command 86, on the basis of its functions and tasks, regularly supports agencies, units and organizations inside and outside the Army in overcoming information insecurity incidents; supporting the implementation of measures to ensure information security for key national systems, giving good play to the role of forces protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace.

In fact, checking at an important state-owned press agency, the results show that in most press and media agencies, the work of ensuring information security has not kept up with the speed of digital transformation. , from which there are many risks of being attacked by hackers. The management of connection of personal and professional computers is not tight. Personal computers can connect to the internal network of the office and then connect to the Internet and vice versa. Using USB is not secure. The number of infected personal computers accounts for about 7.5%. The number of computers using copyrighted crack software accounts for more than 24%. About 3.5% of machines have queries to malicious domains or remote control servers. Service servers are not regularly updated, with nearly 90% of servers having security holes, including serious security holes that allow hackers to escalate privileges and take control of the system.

In addition to news agencies and newspapers, important Party and State agencies (offices) often become targets of attacks by foreign hacker groups with the aim of stealing important information. important. Reality has proven this. Many important agencies and units also have many computers to work regularly containing documents and plans to connect regularly on the internet. This is an ideal target for hackers. In many cases, hackers have directly attacked the server system of anti-virus software, disabled the software, and then continued to install malicious code that scans the network, backdoors, and exploits vulnerabilities. vulnerabilities as well as spyware that collects network information, screenshots. For example, the Mustang Panda group regularly attacks the networks of agencies in Mongolia, Vietnam, Pakistan, Myanmar, Germany, the US, Singapore, traces of this group are also often discovered at state agencies. They use decoy files that are documents named Form_, Report, Directive, Plan, etc. In particular, they also take advantage of events that attract a lot of community interest, such as the Covid pandemic. -19 to spread malicious code via email. After entering the network, the malicious code will spread through email and removable storage devices (USB, portable hard drive, ...). The purpose of the attack is to get information about drives, find files, open files, get file information, write files, etc. to send them to the domain name server they have registered before.

It can be seen that the attack behavior of hackers is highly organized and increasingly sophisticated. Therefore, in order to ensure information security and safety for key information systems, including the press system to protect the Party's revolutionary ideological foundation, it is necessary to have technical solutions that bring information about the Party's revolutionary ideology. uniformity, serious and thorough implementation.

To ensure the safe operation of the information technology (IT) system of the press agencies, the following technical solutions should be well implemented:

- It is very necessary to establish professional networks that are internal networks, not Internet-connected networks, and use measures to exchange data securely via CDROM, one-way transmission systems...

- The computers of press agency officials on business trips should be fully installed with copyrighted and fully updated anti-virus software. Documents that should not be abused are sent via free email systems such as gmail. When necessary, temporarily use password encryption and send the password via SMS.

- Carry outperiodically check information security of the IT system, early detect information insecurity risks to handle before being attacked. Regularly update the system, ensure timely patching of security holes, do not let hackers exploit.

- Limit the use of external storage devices. When it is necessary to use a CD/DVD drive to back up data, absolutely do not use a regular USB, which helps to limit dynamic code from automatically spreading in the network.

- Deploy AD (Active Directory) solution to manage permissions and access to network resources for user accounts in the network.

- Deploy centralized network monitoring solutions to detect and give warnings about the risk of losing information security at the earliest. Currently, the network monitoring system built and developed by the 86th Command has been effectively deployed in many important national agencies. This is a comprehensive monitoring system, integrated with many modern monitoring technologies, capable of automatically detecting and responding to stages of an APT attack based on the MITER ATT&CK model. In addition, with trap technology, the system has the ability to create a fake environment to attract attackers, for the purposes of research and analysis of hacker activities and behaviors to the system. In fact, the system is capable of detecting early signs of insecurity and taking timely interventions in support of agencies and units to ensure information security.

With the development of technology, the rapid process of digital transformation, information gradually becomes a central element of development. Press and media organizations are becoming the main targets of cybercriminals. Strengthening security and information safety for press agencies is extremely necessary, especially for the press system to protect the ideological foundation of the Party."	
"Responding to a reporter's question regarding Reporters Without Borders' making false reports on the press freedom situation in Vietnam, Mr. Thang stated:

This is not the first time Reporters Without Borders has released reports based on false, baseless and malicious information. The fact that Reporters Without Borders allows themselves to rank a country's press freedom according to their own criteria without really understanding the actual conditions of each country, making the assessment, The assessment of this organization is not reliable and convincing.

In Vietnam, the right to freedom of speech in general and the right to freedom of the press in particular are specified in the 2013 Constitution and many related legal documents. The Vietnamese press plays an important role in protecting the social interests and freedoms of the people, contributing to the inspection and supervision of the implementation of policies and laws of the State. In recent years, the press has played a very important role in detecting and fighting corruption and negativity as well as in conveying public, transparent and timely information on hot issues of the country. Currently, the typical example is ensuring accurate and up-to-date information about COVID-19 to all people, creating consensus in society in efforts to prevent the epidemic. People are also created favorable conditions to make effective use of press and communication channels to exercise their rights, and participate in contributing ideas to develop policies and laws of the State.

In recent years, freedom of the press and freedom of information in Vietnam have been clearly demonstrated through the strong development of the press in terms of quantity and diversity of types. Currently, nationwide, there are more than 850 print and electronic press agencies, nearly 90 radio channels and 195 television channels with the participation of more than 25,000 journalist members working in all types of media. press and actively use advanced journalism technology, helping to bring complete and timely information to the Vietnamese people. Reporters and journalists in Vietnam are always facilitated to actively participate in the extensive and comprehensive reflection of all aspects of the country's life.

Journalists in Vietnam are also protected by law and must work within the framework of the law and contribute responsibly to the common interests of the people, community and society.

Regarding the fact that the cybersecurity organization FireEye believes that Vietnam supports the APT32 hacker group in cyberattacks targeting many government agencies and international businesses, Deputy Spokesperson said: This is information that has no basis. department. Vietnam strictly prohibits cyberattacks against organizations and individuals in any form. Acts of attacking and threatening network security need to be condemned and severely punished in accordance with the law. In 2018, the National Assembly of Vietnam passed the Law on Cybersecurity and is currently finalizing legal documents to enforce the law and prevent cyberattacks.

Vietnam is willing to cooperate with the international community in the fight against cyberattacks in all forms."	
"After Vietnam recorded the 17th case of Covid-19 and the following cases, the owner of a facebook page named Nguyen Sin announced: ""The first person in Vietnam has died from Covid-19"". After only about an hour, this false information on Nguyen Sin's facebook page had thousands of comments and shares...

Since the outbreak of Covid-19, most provinces and cities have had many social media account owners who have been administratively sanctioned for spreading fake news, but fake news is still spreading.

In India, the world's second most populous country, hundreds of ""recipes"" that lack scientific basis and are even harmful to health have been posted online, from using cloves to drinking cow urine and dung. . In mid-February 2020, about 200 Hindus in India held an event to drink cow urine in the capital New Delhi, believing it could cure Covid-19. In France, at that time, the Ministry of Health of this country posted a statement denying information online that ""cocaine can cure Covid-19"".

When Covid-19 first broke out, fake information about this disease flooded all social platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube… United Nations (UN) Secretary-General António Guterres warned that we were living in ""another world"". pandemic of disinformation"", and stressed that ""our enemy is the continuing proliferation of disinformation"".

Meanwhile, the Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that there is an ""infodemic"" (short for ""information pandemic"", or ""information pandemic"") and he called fake news ""fake news"". The “second disease” coexists with Covid-19.

Check the source

With social networks, each account holder can be a journalist, news publisher. Although these news are transmitted very simply, they meet the criteria quickly, satisfying the needs of readers to access current news. Social networks not only help journalists discover a lot of hot news, good news, suggest many good topics, but also a channel to spread journalistic works to readers.

Currently, most press agencies have set up their own Facebook and YouTube pages to reach the public. Even with the characteristics of producing many programs, TV stations also own many social networking sites, each program is a different social network account.

The problem is that sharing information on social networks only takes a few seconds, but spreading fake news and unverified news causes unpredictable consequences.

Graphics: MAI ANH
Graphics: MAI ANH
Information can be verified in many ways. With fake news, the poster wears embroidery, evoking curiosity and curiosity, so it often attracts a large number of people. So the reader needs to ask: Is it true? Is this true?... If it's a Facebook account, check the timeline (time series), see their reporting trends.

Check your friends and comments below to see if they are trustworthy or not. If it's a website, use Google to check if reputable websites have given that information, or text or call to ask relevant people that you know. With information in the form of sayings inserted into celebrity photos, you can check the information by searching on Google, if you can't find the text inserted into the image with the image in the original text, the default is hearsay. However, even if you search, you still have to check the link where the saying is posted.

In June 2021, the UN launched a campaign called ""Pause"" to combat the spread of false information online, especially news related to Covid-19, through promoting behavior change of network users. The campaign urges users of digital platforms to pause to think about the information they intend to share before posting it online.

In July 2021, US President Joe Biden also called on Facebook to do more in the fight against fake news about Covid-19 vaccines.

Responsibilities of the press

The prevention of fake news, bad news and poison is also the responsibility of the mainstream press. The press, in addition to publishing information, detecting and warning of fake news, also needs a censorship and verification system to provide official, objective and truthful information, creating trust for the public.

According to Journalism, “Fake News” and Disinformation (UNESCO, 2018), news media needs to move closer to professional standards and ethics, avoid publishing unverified information and keep a The gap with information may be of interest to a segment of the public but is not in the public interest.

All news organizations and journalists should avoid carelessly spreading disinformation and misinformation. Journalists have to do better and “target right” from the start, or lose the ability to build a reliable media for society.

Many psychological studies show that, if fake news debunking is not done properly - or when readers only read article headlines, Twitter tweets or Facebook statuses (status lines) without If you read the full explanation, the human brain is more likely to remember the informationwrong print. Similarity and repetition are important in how and what we remember. So, when repeatedly seeing false information or conspiracy theories online, and then seeing many major newspapers mentioning it with explanations as to why it is not true, the brain starts to struggle. This is not to say that newsrooms should not expose false news, but should be cautious about how they do it.

We need to learn from these examples of the need to take disinformation seriously. Newsrooms need to work together to push out consistent messages around misinformation. It is necessary to write responsible headlines, not use SEO (Search Engine Optimization) tricks that result in more power for rumors.

Dr. Nguyen Sy Dung, former Deputy Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly, said that there are two basic patterns in policy responses to fake news - soft response and hard response. The soft response is to use traditional legal systems, incentive systems and technical solutions to combat fake news. These methods have little impact on freedom of speech and expression; facilitate social debate; capture the society's reaction to the State's policies more easily and accurately. However, this approach is difficult and expensive to combat fake news in specific contexts.

The hard response is to enact specialized legislation to combat fake news; attach importance to the State's involvement in combating fake news. This approach creates a higher deterrent against fake news. If the public power apparatus is honest, the anti-fake news will be highly effective. However, the abuse of power in a hard way can affect the right to freedom of speech, freedom of expression; Social debate can be more difficult.

In fact, ensuring network security is an urgent global issue. Currently, about 140 countries have enacted laws, regulations or have strong measures to enhance cybersecurity.

In addition to the Law on Cybersecurity, the Government of Vietnam has issued Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP, effective from April 15, 2020, clearly stipulating the level of administrative penalties for administrative violations. spreading fake information, causing panic on social networks. Accordingly, acts of taking advantage of social networks to provide and share fake information, false information, distort, slander, fabricate will be fined from 10-20 million.

In terms of criminality, those who spread rumors and fake news with bad motives, causing consequences may be considered for criminal prosecution according to the crimes in the 2015 Penal Code. Specifically, the crimes: slander ( article 156); crime of illegally giving or using information on computer networks or telecommunications networks (article 288); crimes of abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals (article 331)."	
"Cybersecurity is a non-traditional security issue, relatively new, but increasingly concerned by the world at both macro and micro levels.

In Vietnam, over 55% of the population is using mobile phones, over 52% of the population and ranked 4th in the world in terms of internet usage time, 22nd in the world by population. number of people using social networks. Every year, Vietnam suffers from thousands of cyber attacks and Vietnam ranks 20th in the world in terms of ranking of countries with the most cyberattacks, suffering a loss of up to 10,400 billion VND in 2016 alone compared to 8,700 billion dong 2015. In the first quarter of 2017, there were about 7,700 websites/websites attacked by cyberattacks in the form of fraud, malicious code installation, interface changes, etc.

In the first half of 2017, the country had more than 4,600 information pages with national domain names hacked or hijacked by hackers, an increase of nearly 50% over the same period in 2016. Of these, 148 websites belong to management of state agencies, where many serious security holes exist, which hackers can exploit and appropriate. Many confidential information and documents of the state, aviation, banking, and telecommunications industries are at risk of being leaked and seriously damaged.

The reality in the country and the world shows that, a false rumor about financial status, senior personnel, bank director running away or being arrested, especially, rumor about money exchange or the like, … all directly and indirectly have adverse effects on the stability of related financial-credit institutions and can have spillover effects on the entire economy. The consequences are even greater when the information is ambiguous, the inference is groundless, the source is unclear and difficult to verify specifically, while the units and authorities themselves are slow to respond to official handling, not transparently. information, not actively disclosing necessary information. Therefore, information security becomes more and more urgent in the context of the explosive revolution in communication technology, the Internet of Things and social networks, increasing global connectivity, and automatically connecting computer systems. increasingly intervening in financial and investment activities in the world; at the same time there is an increase in requirements for disclosure, transparency and democratization of information in an open and civilized society.

Not only the outbursts of information, stemming from misunderstandings, many negative information are fabricated and released at sensitive times, which has caused confusion and eroded confidence in society, pushing people and Investors deploy safety plans for their assets, without unknowingly knowing that they are abetting the profiteers. In fact, the recent media shows that the careful withdrawal of headlines and expressions can mislead Bitcoin as money and Vietnam has allowed it to be used as foreign currency, leading to many dangerous consequences.

Therefore, in the period of technological revolution, we need to take full advantage of the technological revolution, but on the other hand, it also requires management and prevention of abuse in order to protect national security in the world. cyberspace and civil rights protection. This must be the shared responsibility of relevant authorities, organizations, media agencies, social communities and individuals.

To ensure network security, Vietnam has established a specialized agency on cyber security (Force 47) dedicated to fighting in cyberspace and Vietnam is not the only country with an online army. In particular, on June 12, 2018, the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity, with the approval vote reaching 86.86% out of a total of 95.69% of the voting delegates.

In the Law on Cybersecurity, prohibited acts are also specified in other laws and codes, such as the Penal Code, the Civil Code, etc. of Vietnam. Specifically, Articles 8, Articles 16 and 17 clearly stipulate prohibited acts in using cyberspace, including composing, posting and spreading information on cyberspace with anti-state propaganda content. Socialist Republic of Vietnam (including propaganda that distorts and defames the people's administration; psychological warfare, inciting wars of aggression, division, and hatred among nations, religions and peoples) people of other countries; insulting the nation, national flag, national emblem, national anthem, great man, leader, celebrity, national hero); inciting riots, disrupting security, causing public disorder (including calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, causing division, conducting armed activities or using violence against the government) people; calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, enticing large gatherings to cause trouble, oppose official duty performers, obstruct activities of agencies and organizations, causing instability in security and order on one's own); humiliation, slander (including seriously insulting the honor, reputation and dignity of others; fabricating and untrue information infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity or causing damage to rights and interests legitimate interests of other organizations and individuals); infringing upon economic management order (including fabricated and untrue information about products, goods, money, bonds, bills, bonds, checks and other valuable papers; fabricated information put, sai truth in the field of finance, banking, e-commerce, electronic payment, currency trading, capital raising, multi-level business, securities); Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals.

The law also prohibits acts of cyber espionage; infringing on state secrets, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace (including appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing information belonging to state secrets or work secrets; business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life that affect the honor, reputation, dignity, lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; intentionally delete or damage damage, loss or change of information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life are transmitted and stored in cyberspace; intentionally change, cancel or disable technical measures developed and applied to protect information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, secrets family secrets and private life; posting on cyberspace information belonging to personal secrets, family secrets, and private life contrary to the law; intentionally listening to, illegally recording conversations conversation; other acts of intentionally infringing on state secrets, business secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life). Other acts (including appropriating property; organizing gambling, online gambling; theft of international telecommunications charges on the internet; piracy and intellectual property infringement intellectual property in cyberspace; forging websites of agencies, organizations and individuals; forging, circulating, stealing, trading, illegally collecting and exchanging credit card and account information other people's banking; issuing, providing, using illegal means of payment; propagating, advertising, trading in goods and services on the banned list as prescribed by law; guiding others commit illegal acts; other acts of using cyberspace to violate the law on national security, social order and safety. deceive, entice, train and train people to oppose the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distort history, deny revolutionary achievements, undermine the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insult religion , gender discrimination, p racial salutations; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals; prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security. Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means. Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures. Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. …

At the same time, the Cybersecurity Law also clearly stipulates the responsibilities and authority of information system owners, specialized network security forces and competent agencies, together with online service providers. telecommunications, internet and value-added services, organizations and individuals draft, post, and distribute information in cyberspace in management, prevention, detection, blocking, and removal. remove only information on the internet with prohibited content as above…

Thus, in general, the provisions in the content of the Cybersecurity Law of Vietnam are necessary and follow the general trend in the world on legal regulations to ensure network security; meet practical requirements to proactively prevent, detect, prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security, ensuring that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, order and safety. society, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; especially, do not hinder the people's healthy and legally protected freedom of the internet and free speech in Vietnam.

However, to preventn misrepresentation and misunderstanding, distorting the positive meaning of the Cybersecurity Law, in order to avoid abuse and help better awareness and compliance with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, the authorities need to further formalize and clarify some definitions and levels of sanctions, processes and coordination mechanisms to deal with prohibited acts in the production, circulation, storage and use of information in cyberspace. In particular, it is necessary to be transparent and concretize a number of new and sensitive violations of concepts and criteria, such as: ""False information causes confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities society, causing difficulties to the operation of state agencies or official duty performers; information that distorts history, denies revolutionary achievements; undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation…”.

At the same time, according to their functions and management decentralization, Government agencies should actively continue to review and perfect the legal system related to information security; improve the capacity, effectiveness, responsibility and coordination of information and information management; well implement the regulations on spokesman and spokesman, periodically, fully publicize and update the system of official information according to the State's regulations and integration requirements; ensure the accountability of the statutory head; to step up activities of building and implementing, comprehensively examining and evaluating national standards and certifying conformity with standards on security assurance, a system of regulations and processes to ensure information security in space. national network and communication; detecting, preventing incidents, overcoming weaknesses and security holes of the national information system and ensuring information security and safety at economic, financial and monetary agencies and organizations currency, investment; organizing scientific research, solutions, technology, testing, application, production and supply of the national cyber security assurance system; attracting, educating, fostering and rewarding high-quality human resources in information technology and cybersecurity experts performing the task of ensuring national cyber security.

Business enterprises and organizations need to attach importance to communication work, proactively providing information on internal portals and to the press, not only good information, but also unfavorable information should be provided. transparency and publicity to varying degrees, avoiding speculation that causes misunderstandings or misinterpretations in social media and the public. Actively grasp, adapt and change in time with new technology trends, reshaping business and governance models; upgrade the backup data center, improve the capacity to handle the challenges of information security and network security, effectively deal with high-tech crimes...

Press agencies and media managers should promote social responsibility in communication activities; comply with press laws and regulations relating to national information and information secrecy; proactively and promptly provide accurate, transparent, selective and deliberate information, both meeting market demand and professional and professional quality, having the right orientation and creating consensus, unity in public opinion.

At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the responsibility to actively coordinate in identifying and removing information with false, malicious, and cognitive interference in cyberspace; improve professionalism and be careful in using technical terms and article headlines, avoiding easy comments, greedy for sensational headlines, using strong language to attract readers, but disregarding quality information (especially unverified information) and expertise, unintentionally or intentionally falsifying information and personal gain. Promote widespread propaganda and strengthen sanctions for acts of providing, storing, using

He believes in order to distort, slander, insult the reputation and damage the honor, dignity and legitimate interests of the State, organizations and individuals...

To step up the application of information technology in professional communication activities and strengthen the work of ensuring security and safety of internal network information; proactively develop scenarios to deal with communication crises and technical problems, proactively take measures to prevent and overcome risks of insecurity and safety, protect state and agency secrets, improve provide ""firewalls"" and update and modernize security devices, software and technical tools to prevent and restrict access to information areas managed by the State upon request; ensure modern equipment for the agency specialized in ensuring national cyber security and strengthen the capacity to inspect, examine and evaluate the security assurance of information systems important to national security. for the common sustainable development of the country"	
"In 2019, about 8,000 videos with malicious content, hundreds of accounts, thousands of illegal sales and advertising links were removed. Many cases of using social networks to incite national hatred, call for protests against the government, and distort the lines, guidelines and policies of the Party and the State... have been discovered and handled appropriately. . People's awareness has been gradually raised. The Law on Cybersecurity shows that people are allowed to express their opinions on social networking sites within the framework of the law, especially when those opinions are aimed at protecting the interests of the community, condemning negative acts on the Internet. Social networks will be responded to by the online community and have a strong spread. As a result, the situation of information disturbance in cyberspace has been gradually rectified, helping people to access healthy and useful information every day.

Recently, a matter of great concern to many people is the situation of the COVID-19 epidemic. The spread of fake news and false information about the epidemic situation and the prevention and control of the Covid-19 epidemic has shown signs of increasing. increase, in which the main focus is on inciting the region and dividing the great national unity bloc; spreading false information about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines, distorting the Government's policy of distribution and supply of vaccines, the use of vaccine funds for Covid-19 prevention and control; disease developments in hot spots such as Ho Chi Minh City and southern provinces; misrepresenting the epidemic prevention and control measures of the Government and localities… The Ministry of Information and Communications has worked with businesses providing social networks and asked Google to remove more than 2,000 slanderous, defamatory clips. smeared Party and State leaders on YouTube and so far more than 1,000 clips have been deleted and 10 cases have been sanctioned; Over 170 individuals were handled for posting false information about the epidemic on social networks, including celebrities.

On the side of Yen Bai province, regularly monitor and capture information and use of social networks related to the Covid-19 epidemic in the province. Timely exchange and guide staff of the Culture and Information Department; Relevant agencies handle cases of sharing and posting false information about the Covid-19 epidemic situation in the province. Ready to inspect and handle public Internet service businesses that do not suspend operations under the direction of the Provincial People's Committee at Official Publication No. 02/CD-UBND dated April 30, 2021; Authorities have also made decisions to sanction administrative violations with many subjects who do not comply with regulations on prevention and control of the COVID-19 epidemic. Up to now, localities throughout the province have sanctioned them. administrative violations with 485 cases of violations of regulations on prevention of Covid-19 epidemic, total amount of over 650 million VND. In which, the main violation is not wearing a mask in public: 343 cases, over 380 million VND. Then there are 25 cases of violation of urban order in epidemic prevention and control, the fine amount is nearly 16 million dong. 17 cases not reported on infectious disease surveillance; failure to comply with measures to prevent and control infectious diseases at the request of competent agencies, totaling 61 million VND; 41 cases of violation of urban order in epidemic prevention and control and 12 cases of evasion of medical isolation measures.

 The timely and resolute handling of the authorities has been approved and supported by the public. Because the epidemic is not scary if we are sober, calm, fully equipped with knowledge and skills to prevent and fight the disease and take it seriously, the scary thing is believing in misinformation and misrepresentation online. The purpose of society is to spread confusion, fear, and incite negative behavior in the community. At the same time, thanks to the Law on Cybersecurity with the drastic intervention of relevant authorities and authorities, fraudulent acts on social networks such as taking advantage of the epidemic to increase prices, counterfeiting, etc. . medical equipment was also handled in a timely manner. By February 19, 2020, the authorities had handled more than 30,000 online (online) stores with nearly 48,000 infringing products.

Before the determination of the authorities, many e-commerce sites with fraudulent behavior have automatically closed or adjusted their behavior. The Law on Cybersecurity has played an important role in protecting the legitimate rights and interests of people, maintaining social order, and protecting national security in the internet environment. In order to continue to supplement and support the Law on Cybersecurity, on February 3, 2020, the Prime Minister signed and promulgated Decree 15/2020/ND - CP providing for penalties for administrative violations in the postal sector. telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions. Accordingly, the Decree will promote more strongly the role of the law in general and the Law on Cybersecurity in particular in detecting, preventing and handling violations in cyberspace. The most beneficiaries are the people and agencies, organizations and businesses... on that basis, contribute to the protection of social order and safety."	
"Regarding the case that the Voice of Vietnam Electronic Newspaper (VOV.VN) was hacked online, making it impossible for readers to access for many times; Some reporters and leaders of this online newspaper were called, texted, cursed, insulted, threatened.... on the afternoon of June 15, talking to Lao Dong, Mr. Hoang Minh Tien - Deputy Director of the Department of Safety Information - said: The Department of Information Security is continuing to coordinate with VOV electronic newspaper to capture all information about the time, the incident, which IP attacks and which specific systems. of VOV.

""Currently, there are still more cyber attacks against VOV Electronic Newspaper,"" said Deputy Director of the Information Security Department.

According to Mr. Hoang Minh Tien, there are many information contents that the department will have to work with related parties. Specifically in this case, the Department of Information Security works with Internet service providers to both participate and support the attack tracing.

The Deputy Director of the Information Security Department explained, if there is an attack address from Vietnam, it will have to verify where this address is from, whether it is real or fake, infected with malicious code and even thanks to the network operators. intervene in a timely manner.

A representative of the Information Security Department confirmed that the attack affected VOV electronic newspaper. This also shows that the risk of risks, insecurity, being attacked is very large in the network environment, especially for online newspapers with a large number of users. The attack on the state-run press agency is a serious violation of the law.

From a legal perspective, lawyer Quach Thanh Luc (Hanoi Bar Association) affirmed that the deliberate attack on the VOV website is a serious violation of the law and adversely affects the public. VOV's reputation and is threatening the field of cybersecurity, information technology, and telecommunications networks protected by Vietnamese law.

Lawyer Luc said, from an administrative perspective, the acts that hinder the service provision of the information system; infiltrating, modifying, deleting information contents of organizations and individuals in the network environment or illegally accessing other people's networks or digital devices to gain control of digital devices will be fined 30- VND 50 million according to Article 80 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP.

In criminal terms, cyberattacks against VOV show signs of obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks and electronic devices according to Article 287 of the Penal Code 2015.

With the VOV electronic newspaper being suspended for 2 days, June 13 and 14, according to the lawyer, the subject's behavior could face a maximum sentence of 12 years in prison.

""VOV has the right to demand compensation from the violator for all damages incurred by the unit such as remedial costs or lost advertising income due to interrupted website operation"", lawyer Luc said. let me know.

Up to now, the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (A05) of the Ministry of Public Security has investigated the attack. Leaders of the Ministry of Information and Communications have directed Viettel and VNPT to urgently support VOV to handle the case"	
"At the press conference to announce the results of the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly taking place on the afternoon of June 15, the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly Nguyen Hanh Phuc and representatives of a number of Committees of the National Assembly attended the meeting. respond to the contents related to the Cybersecurity Law project just passed by the National Assembly.
General Secretary of the National Assembly, Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly Nguyen Hanh Phuc said that regarding the Law on Cybersecurity, the National Assembly has exchanged opinions and feedbacks from experts and voters. On that basis, the National Assembly listened, the drafting agency, and the verifying agency also carefully absorbed this content, from which it voted to pass with a high approval rate. It is important to propagate for people and businesses to understand that the Cybersecurity Law protects the interests of people and businesses.
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong, Standing Member of the National Assembly's Committee on National Defense and Security, affirmed that during the verification process, the National Assembly Standing Committee was able to correct the draft Law on Cybersecurity and the National Defense and Security Committee. listened to voters, experts, especially representatives of some countries such as the US, Australia, the European Union and Asia-Pacific internet and telecommunications associations... Therefore, Many issues in the Law project submitted by the Government have been absorbed and adjusted to meet the requirements of network security.
Citing Facebook's use of user data to provide businesses with interference in the internal affairs of some countries, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong emphasized, this is not only a problem of Vietnam but also of countries around the world, causing serious problems. global challenge. Before worrying that the Law would affect businesses in the field of providing telecommunications and internet services, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong affirmed that this was absolutely not the case.
“The law creates a legal mechanism to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and businesses at home and abroad,” he said.
Around the information whether Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam or not, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong emphasized that up to now, the official information is that the two big technology corporations of the world There has not been any official response around participating in the development of this law.
“We are also excited that, after the Law project was approved by the National Assembly, the mass media had positive feedback, the content of the bill was widely communicated, achieving high consensus. in people's awareness,"" said Mr. Hong.
Regarding setting up a server in Vietnam and storing data of Vietnamese users in Vietnam, Standing Member of the National Defense and Security Committee Nguyen Thanh Hong pointed out, these are two issues with different opinions. among many countries in the world.
According to the Review Report of the National Defense and Security Commission, currently 18 countries require network service providers, especially social networks, to store data in that country.
In May 2018, the European Union officially required Facebook to store data in European Union countries. This is a necessary requirement, both to protect national security and to ensure the legitimate rights and interests of citizens as stipulated in the Constitution.
“The law passed this time only stores Vietnamese user data, of Vietnamese citizens in Vietnam, but mainly personal information of users. According to the Constitution, this is the property of Vietnamese citizens, authorized by Vietnamese citizens. protection law. Therefore, service providers are responsible for protecting user secrets in Vietnam. Some information saying that hindering the digital industry, industry 4.0 is completely incorrect,” emphasized Mr. Hong.
The General Secretary of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Office of the National Assembly added that the regulation of setting up a server and storing data in Vietnam is not the first time stipulated in this Law. According to Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP of the Government, organizations and enterprises set up general websites, set up social networks, provide information content services on telecommunications networks. Mobile telecommunications and electronic game service providers must “have at least 1 server system located in Vietnam to meet the inspection, examination, storage and provision of information at the request of regulatory agencies.” competent state and resolve customer complaints."	
"In the context of deepening international integration and the strong development of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, especially information technology, the internet has become a new social space - ""cyberspace"". . This is a concept used recently in Vietnam; is understood as ""the interconnection network of information technology infrastructure, including telecommunications network, Internet, computer network, information system, information processing and control system, database ; is a place where people perform social behaviors that are not limited by space and time”. The basic characteristics of cyberspace are: transmission speed, fast information search, huge information storage; community cohesion, borderless, multimedia, highly interactive; is a constituent part of society, covering all aspects of social life, bringing new opportunities and opportunities for nations and peoples to cooperate and develop. The positives and negatives of cyberspace are complex. Information on cyberspace is confusing, inaccurate, difficult to verify and control, negatively impacting community culture; increasing the risk of revealing state secrets; decline in state power and national power. At the same time, being a leading tool for hostile forces to take advantage of sabotage; a “fertile” environment for terrorist organizations, criminals to operate, etc.

Taking advantage of that advantage, hostile forces, reactionaries and bad elements have been thoroughly exploiting the pervasiveness to carry out a ""communication revolution"" to introduce malicious, fake information, images of pornographic images, inciting violence, calling for the formation of illegal groups, opposition political forces working to counterbalance the Party; propagating Western pragmatic lifestyles, enjoyment, inciting national hatred; smear the prestige of the Party and State leaders. Especially, during the last 13th Party Congress, they used thousands of websites, blogs, hundreds of magazines, newspapers, publishers and radio stations with Vietnamese programs to promote campaigns. distorting and destructive information about ideas; distort documents submitted to the Congress and the Party's personnel work; incitement, internal division, formation of opposition political organizations, in order to destabilize political security, social order and safety in our country. Their purpose is to transform and change political perception, not distinguishing between true and false information, gradually believing in fake and malicious information leading to loss of faith in life, away from the truth. leadership and direction of the Party and State.

Recognizing the importance and urgency of protecting the Fatherland in cyberspace, on July 25, 2018, our Party issued a Resolution on ""Strategy to defend the Fatherland in cyberspace"" and a Resolution on ""Strategy to protect the Fatherland in cyberspace"". National Cybersecurity”. The Party's strategy to protect the Fatherland in cyberspace clearly states: “Building a safe, healthy and widespread national cyberspace, creating favorable conditions for economic development; building, developing and protecting Vietnamese culture in cyberspace”2. Our army's task of defending the Fatherland in cyberspace is to perform the task in a new combat environment, with a new method and form of war - ""without gun smoke"". That objectively promotes, creates new opportunities and advantages, but also poses challenges to the task of educating the sense of national defense in cyberspace in the Army. The basic requirement of education is to strengthen and raise awareness, beliefs, attitudes, feelings and determination to defend the Fatherland in cyberspace for all cadres and soldiers, contributing to the accomplishment of the mission. the task of protecting sovereignty, cyber security and the ideological foundation of the Party, defending the Fatherland in cyberspace.

To do that, it is necessary to do some basic contents and measures:

Firstly, to strengthen education on the task of protecting the Fatherland in cyberspace for Army officers and soldiers. Thoroughly grasp and well implement the Party's directives and resolutions, the State's legal documents, the Central Military Commission, and the Ministry of National Defense on political, moral and legal education throughout the army, especially in the military. Legal documents on cybersecurity and national defense in cyberspace, such as Directive No. 30-CT/TW, dated December 25, 2013 of the Politburo on development and strengthening of newspaper management electronic newspapers, social networks and other forms of communication on the Internet; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP, dated 15/7/2013 of the Government on management, provision and use of Internet and online information; Circular No. 09/2014/BTTTT, dated August 19, 2014 of the Ministry of Information and Communications on management, provision and use of information on websites and social networks; Directive No. 03/CT-BQP, dated January 23, 2014 of the Ministry of National Defense on strengthening information security assurance and a number of issues on organization of cyber warfare activities; Circular No. 56/2020/TT-BQP of the Ministry of Defense, dated May 5, 2020 on regulations on managementmanagement and assurance of information safety, cyber security in the Ministry of National Defense, etc. Analyzing and clarifying the nature of cyberspace, taking advantage of this form to oppose the revolution of our country by hostile forces. Improving the effectiveness of education on Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh Thought, the tradition of ""Uncle Ho's soldiers"", Directive No. 05-CT/TW of the Politburo (term XII), Resolution 4 of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) 12th term) on Party building and rectification. At the same time, educate the National Defense Strategy in cyberspace, the National Cybersecurity Strategy, the Army's directives and regulations on the management and use of the Internet, social networks, etc. Thereby, making cadres and soldiers ""aware of, properly, fully and deeply appreciate the opportunities and challenges facing our country in cyberspace, correctly identify the goals, viewpoints and mottos."" directing and tasks and solutions to take strong and resolute determination and measures in cyberspace, contributing to firmly defending the Fatherland in the new situation”.

Second, to renovate programs, contents, forms and methods of education for the task of national defense in cyberspace in the Army. It is necessary to review, adjust and develop educational contents and programs suitable to the situation and tasks of the Army. In which, priority is given to the contents of building political bravery, will and determination, moral qualities, style and lifestyle; sense of observance of State law and military discipline; ethical, cultural, social knowledge, self-defense ability and skills to prevent and combat malicious information on social networks. Improve the quality of compiling political learning materials for subjects. flexibly and creatively apply educational forms and methods; closely combine the traditional with the modern. Renovating the propaganda methods of military media agencies, further promoting the advantages of the Internet; diversify forms of propaganda, dissemination and education in cyberspace. In addition to the forms of oral propaganda, organizing research contests, thematic talks, questions and answers about the law, management and use of social networks, it is necessary to focus on promoting the effectiveness of social networking sites. , specialized force to fight in cyberspace, Steering Committee 35 at all levels. To give full play to the roles and responsibilities of the subjects, which are directly the party committees, commanders, political agencies at all levels, political cadres in leading, orienting, directing, educating, protecting tasks. Homeland in cyberspace.

Third, fostering methods and skills to fight for national defense in cyberspace for cadres and soldiers. In which, focusing on fostering fighting methods, organizing propaganda in cyberspace; methods of recognizing, receiving information, ways of self-defense, ""immunity"" against fake, bad and harmful information; how to organize and coordinate forces in monitoring and handling bad and toxic information in cyberspace; skills in identifying plots and tricks of hostile and reactionary forces against cyberspace and cyber security violations; skills in using technical measures to overcome consequences when being attacked in cyberspace. With the specialized forces, the press agency of the Army, it is necessary to foster ways to organize seminars, exchange experiences, organize propaganda, ideological orientation and public opinion; how to build and maintain columns to prevent and combat ""peaceful evolution"" in cyberspace. Fostering professional skills, information technology application skills, expanding links, digitizing propaganda and struggle activities in cyberspace; fight, prevent, debunk and disable the operation of bad and malicious accounts and channels; building a reputable communication channel to propagate and orient public opinion information on the Internet, such as: Youtube, Fanpage, Facebook; promote interaction, sharing and promotion of official information to the community.

Fourth, fight to defeat the plots and counter-destructive activities of hostile forces to improve the effectiveness of the army's sense of national defense education in cyberspace. Here, it is necessary to pay special attention to two basic struggles that are closely related to each other: first, actively, actively fighting and criticizing, rejecting wrong and hostile views, and protecting the private foundation. ideology of the Party, raising the sense of national defense; Second, fight for the protection of sovereignty, safety and security in cyberspace to educate and raise the sense of national defense in cyberspace in the Army. In order to carry out the above two directions of struggle, it is necessary to actively and proactively grasp the situation, early detect the object's sabotage activities to fight and defeat their plots and tricks. Promote the synergy, roles and responsibilities of organizations and forces; closely coordinate with relevant agencies, departments and sectors to step up the fight against false and hostile views and claims of hostile objects and opportunistic elements on social networks."	
"Up to now, no one dares to doubt the power of Facebook or Youtube with every daily activity. Even the Vietnam Journalists Association has to issue a rule on the use of social networks by Vietnamese journalists, proving that professional journalists must also be wary of the influence of hundreds of thousands of purple information in space. virtual.

Two important elements of technology that have divided the right to information for everyone are decentralization and delegitimization. With social networks, an individual in a remote area is equivalent to an individual in an urban area in terms of the ability to receive information as well as transmit information. In other words, with just one Facebook account, everyone is as majestic as… ""Editor-in-Chief"" of a newspaper with his own dignity. However, that utility of social networks creates many consequences for mainstream newspapers!.


Social media is dominating our lives.
Mainstream newspapers must accept a rigorous due diligence process before publishing an information, while social networks are easy to accept rumors. Therefore, two states arose, the mainstream newspapers were racing against social networks, and at the same time, the mainstream newspapers were also harassed by social networks. Undeniably, social networks are very responsive and very diverse.

However, social networks also contain both one-sidedness and extremism. The frequent and dense connection of social networks creates chain effects that are difficult to predict and difficult to control. Social networks help mainstream newspapers get important ""keywords"" to capture reader trends, but social networks also push mainstream newspapers into a passive position when spreading more false information than real, much bad. than good.

There are famous Facebook players who have a following of several hundred thousand, much higher than the circulation of a daily newspaper. Therefore, the competition between them and the mainstream press has promoted the information to be updated more continuously, more accurately, more deeply.

In fact, there are many professional journalists who have changed their careers, considering Facebook as their main forum. The smartphone is ubiquitous, causing readers to search for information on social networks instead of buying and reading newspapers. As a result of that calculated and cunning selection, the mainstream newspaper lost both in terms of distribution market and advertising revenue.

The clever algorithms of Facebook and Youtube have conquered many businesses and brands, providing a complete database of existing and potential customers compatible with each product. The mainstream newspaper will certainly fail before the social network, if it does not convert appropriately according to the utility of technology, but only hopes for loyal readers to print newspapers. Are mainstream newspapers afraid of social media? Yes! Facebook and Youtube not only acquire advertising revenue, but also have a comfortable margin for uncensored information. To keep its position in the hearts of readers, mainstream newspapers must improve the quality of information, make it more useful, and make it more attractive.

The advantage of mainstream newspapers lies in professional journalists, with a talent for analyzing information as well as a talent for expressing information. Specifically, mainstream newspapers must rise above social networks not by information about what has happened or what is happening, but by communicating what will happen, what needs to happen. That bravery, the ""Editor-in-Chief"" of the newspaper… Facebook can't have!

In the midst of the competition between mainstream newspapers and social networks, another obvious beneficiary is electronic news sites. Neither mainstream newspapers nor social networks, electronic news sites reconcile both information platforms to exist ironically.

In the journey of national press planning, many opinions have warned about the spreading activities of electronic magazines. However, e-magazines also have a governing body to manage, and electronic news sites are diverse, but the Press Department or the Departments of Information and Communications have not had any effective solutions to establish. quiet. There are websites that also set up specialized committees, also send official letters to threaten economic units, also send advertising invitations and also issue Correspondent Cards to work as a major press agency. regulation.

There is a joint-stock company that has used the finance of a venture capital fund to organize many websites that dominate the market, but the ordinary public thinks they are a media corporation. When the Constitution prohibits the privatization of the press, the appearance of such joint stock companies is really a question that makes professional journalists wonder!


The work won the Vietnam Press Caricature Award!
Having a website seems too simple. Just set up a company, apply for a website registration, and innocently make a fake newspaper. The most ingenious way is to think of a website name and then name a similar company to have the opportunity to practice journalism.

For example, the website Sao Viet is proud on the internet, because it is owned by the Russian companyOh Sao Viet. The more I find out, the more funny it is, there are companies that register many business lines but have no commercial activities or services, other than… implementing an electronic news site following the model of a genuine newspaper. Because there is no governing body and no quality monitoring, websites rush to cheap hookups, with information such as actor X revealing underwear or singer Y being jealous.

Artists are afraid of electronic news sites because they are ready to ""new"" their models to their colleagues, or carelessly add salt and salt to show biz conflicts. Business people are also afraid of electronic news sites because they do not need morality or self-respect, but only aim to ""make it worse for money"".

How to solve that mess? The company's license is registered at the Department of Planning and Investment, while the website is registered with the Department of Information and Communications, but these two units have little opportunity for inter-sectoral cooperation to check the long distance between the two companies. the purpose of establishing the company and the purpose of setting up the website. Unable to conceal a clear manifestation, it is the electronic information sites that are disturbing the press market. Most cases of impersonating journalists to harass businesses or sensationalize customers come from online news sites. If the national press planning, without measures to sanction electronic news sites, the quality of journalism is still a questionable unknown.

Currently, how many websites are operating as journalism? Perhaps no one can answer, because there are no serious and detailed statistics. Mainstream newspapers and social networks are having an unequal struggle, while electronic news sites are blatantly ""fatty"".

Has the benefit that electronic news sites have, have they been exchanged for the notoriety of mainstream newspapers? Readers can only distinguish between mainstream newspapers and social networks, but readers have no way of knowing how arrogant online news sites are wearing official newspapers. Perhaps it's time for regulators to take a more holistic and strict look at websites.

Because, an information in the official newspaper, when obtained through the piracy of electronic news sites, will lead to serious deviations and reliability, and directly cause disturbances to the audience. take. If the Press Law is for mainstream newspapers, and the Cybersecurity Law is for social networks, which law is for electronic news sites? A very small question that many people shy away from"	
"With 7 Chapters and 43 Articles, the Law on Cybersecurity is an important legal basis, stipulating the contents of protection, prevention and handling of acts of infringing upon network security.

Immediately after the Law on Cybersecurity was issued for comments, the public was very interested in discussing. The issue that the public is most concerned about is what behaviors are prohibited in cyberspace and what people must pay attention to when using social networks when expressing their views so as not to break the law...

The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates six groups of acts that are strictly prohibited in cyberspace. Violators, depending on the nature and severity of their behavior, will be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability and compensate for the damage caused.

Accordingly, prohibited acts on cybersecurity include: using cyberspace, information technology, and electronic means to violate national security, social order and safety, including anti-destructive activities. The State, distorting history, insulting religion, discriminating on gender, racial discrimination, inciting riots, disrupting security, disrupting public order; false information, humiliate others, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; manifestations of prostitution, social evils; human trafficking and instigating, enticing and inciting others to commit crimes...

In addition, the Law also prohibits the conduct of cyberwar, cyber attack, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security.

At the same time, the Law on Cybersecurity also prohibits the production and use of tools, means and software or acts of obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks and telecommunications networks; Distributing computer programs that harm the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means.

The act of illegally infiltrating another person's computer network, telecommunications network or electronic means is also prohibited in the same way as opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security guard; Illegally attacking or disabling the network security measures...

In the era of information technology explosion, the issue of cybersecurity is not only a concern of each individual country, but it has really become a global concern. Therefore, the Law on Cybersecurity was born to protect all interests of all organizations and individuals when participating in online community activities as well as to protect the health of the network environment.

The Law on Cybersecurity was born on the basis of the systematization, centralization and legalization of Vietnam's previous regulations on network security management. The law is a synthesis of many opinions of experts, legislators, individuals and organizations... has been revised, reviewed, considered and synthesized in many aspects, so it is considered to be very progressive.

The Cybersecurity Law is not intended to deter foreign investors. On the contrary, it is intended to make cyber activities healthier. The Law's establishment of strict regulations on cyberspace for businesses operating in the cyber sector is to help foreign businesses consider more carefully when engaging in cyber business activities in Vietnam.

The Law on Cybersecurity does not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; The law is consistent with the Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties to which Vietnam is a contracting party.

In our country, every year there are thousands of cyber attacks targeting the information systems of the authorities as well as the country.

The activities of cyberspace also generate many complicated and difficult-to-control developments, the consequences are not small for society, the consequences even lead to death, more serious than harm to the environment. national security ... by the words and statements in cyberspace. Therefore, the work of protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety in cyberspace is an urgent requirement.

And so, the formulation of the Law on Cybersecurity is absolutely right and necessary to prevent and be ready to prevent threats to network security and protect sovereignty, interests, national security and order. order, social safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals throughout the Vietnamese territory.

However, in the past time, after the Law on Cybersecurity was widely consulted by the XIV National Assembly and right after the Law took effect, there have been many accusations of bad actors, powerful forces. The reactionary continuously distorts the Law on Cybersecurity.

The nature of these subjects is just an excuse when Vietnam promulgates the Law on Cybersecurity for the main purpose of inciting hostility, causing national division, slandering and distorting policies on economic development, construction building a rich and strong Vietnam with the investment cooperation environment that our Party and people have chosen and are aiming for.

From a legal perspective, the information and articles of these bad objects ultimately lack scientific basis and are not valid. knowledgeable about the law. Even the way of speaking, using words of these subjects are just words that lack culture, are not suitable with the fine customs and traditions of our nation as well as the period of civilized behavior that humanity is aiming for; deliberately distorting, distorting the truth, opposing the regime, going against the people's legitimate interests with hostility and hostility to the renovation achievements that our country, our Party, and our people have achieved achieve…

Affirming that the Law on Cybersecurity does not completely violate the right to freedom of speech, the right to express opinions and opinions of citizens, but on the contrary, creates conditions for the exercise of this right in accordance with the law. Any organization or individual has the right to express their views, but of course they must comply with the provisions of the law.

Thus, the effective Cybersecurity Law is an important legal basis to protect all businesses, organizations and individuals when participating in cyberspace activities. Be a true netizen and let's build a healthy online community"	
"However, in recent times, hostile and reactionary forces have deliberately distorted and distorted the truth about the exercise of civil and political rights in general and the right to access information in particular in Vietnam. On some websites with a lack of goodwill, there are people who think that Vietnam ""strangles"", ""hidden"" information; ""obstructing people's rights to freedom of expression, opinion and speech""... Even on the RFA website, it is vaguely argued that: ""hiding information is the principle of the Government of Vietnam. .. "".

It should be affirmed immediately that the above tone is a baseless fabrication, blatantly distorting the guarantee of civil and political rights in general and the right to information in Vietnam in particular. That action revealed the intentions and political motives that were not pure for Vietnam. The fact that guarantees people's right to information in Vietnam has completely refuted these false claims.

The consistent policy of the Party and State of Vietnam is to encourage and create all favorable conditions for people to be informed; exploit and use the internet to access information to serve the goals of socio-economic development, support administrative reform, improve the quality of life and exercise basic freedoms of the people. people. In that spirit, Vietnam has achieved many achievements in ensuring the people's right to information. These achievements are first reflected in the construction and improvement of the legal system. The National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has revised and promulgated many new legal documents to better ensure the people's right to information, including laws and decrees such as the Press Law 2016; Law on Access to Information 2016; Law on Cybersecurity 2018; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”… All of these legal documents comply with the socialist rule of law principle. , in accordance with the 2013 Constitution, not only ensures the right to receive information, but also ensures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency in protecting State secrets, preventing the disclosure and leakage of information secrets.

Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP defines the policy of the Party and State of Vietnam as creating favorable conditions for economic development, creating the best conditions for people in difficult areas to use Internet services and information on the Internet in search and access to information. In the face of the strong development of the internet and electronic networks, protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace is an important and inevitable task. The Law on Cybersecurity defines the rule of law of our State, while respecting and ensuring human rights, including the right to access information. For websites operating in Vietnam, the Law on Cybersecurity also has very clear and specific regulations. Ensuring information security in cyberspace in accordance with the Law on Cybersecurity based on international practices does not impede people's right to information and does not hinder the operation of network enterprises deploying services in Vietnam. Male. This is clearly demonstrated in the United Nations Human Rights Council's National Report on the protection and promotion of human rights under the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) cycle III of the United Nations Human Rights Council, published at a workshop held by the United Nations. December 3, 2018. Accordingly, Vietnam is one of the countries with the fastest internet growth in the world, with over 50 million internet users...

The Government of Vietnam has implemented a system to receive feedbacks and petitions from people and businesses through the Government Portal, and annually develops and publicly publishes the PAR Index of Public Administration Reforms. State administrative agencies and the People's Satisfaction Index with the service of State administrative agencies. In the context of the Industrial Revolution 4.0, the Government of Vietnam has established a National Committee, speeding up the construction of ""e-Government""; portals of State agencies, in order to provide online public services, for officials, agencies and organizations to have direct dialogue with the people; so that people through the internet can express their thoughts and aspirations and send their opinions to the Party and government in order to improve the efficiency of receiving and reflecting information and recommendations of the people. In fact, the number of people using the internet and social networks to express their opinions, organize discussion forums, criticize the Party and State's guidelines and policies, and send comments and recommendations to the authorities. in Vietnam is increasing. Much information from MXH has been checked, verified and handled in a timely manner by relevant authorities and authorities at all levels.

In order to ensure the people's right to receive information, our Party and State have adopted many policies, including the development of press and communication. In order to enhance the publicity and transparency of information, the Prime Minister has promulgated the Regulation on the mechanism for speaking and providing information to the press of ministries, ministerial-level agencies, Governmental agencies, People's Committees. provinces and centrally-run cities according to the provisions of the law and current press activities... Interested in the Party and State, our country's revolutionary presshas had a rapid and comprehensive development, increasingly showing the role of a bridge between the Party, the State and the people, a broad social forum to promote democracy; is the defender of the people's legitimate interests... Not only has the number of press agencies, radio and television programs, and newspaper technology increased rapidly, the quality of publications has increasingly changed. new in terms of content and form of expression. The team of journalists has developed and matured in many aspects. In particular, the orientation of press development following the model of a multimedia media agency has created great possibilities for the transmission of information by press agencies, contributing to better ensuring the right to information and communication. receive information from the people.

The rapid development of mass media and the internet shows that freedom of speech and information freedom in Vietnam has improved and developed strongly. However, like every country in the world, Vietnamese law restricts freedom of expression, right to information and access to information in some cases, in accordance with the International Convention on civil and political rights, in order to respect the lawful and legitimate rights, reputation and honor of others; to protect national security, social order and safety, public health and morality of society. The cases that some websites cite to say that Vietnam violates the right to freedom of information, in fact, they have violated Vietnamese law. Like every other country in the world, in Vietnam all acts of obstructing or threatening the right to information and the freedom to access information; abusing the right to freedom of speech and freedom of information to infringe upon the lawful and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; causing damage to the reputation and honor of others; infringing upon national security, social order and safety, morality and public health... depending on the nature and extent, shall be handled according to the provisions of law.

However, we also objectively acknowledge that the guarantee of people's right to access to information still has some shortcomings and limitations that need to be overcome soon. It is noteworthy that the implementation of the Regulation on speaking and providing information to the press in some ministries, branches and localities is not good. There are also signs that officials assigned to speak, provide information to the press are afraid of responsibility, push for unauthorized people or cite many reasons to refuse to provide information. Some officials assigned to provide information lacked speaking skills, did not thoroughly understand the issues and cases, so they could not meet the requirements of the press and public opinion. The coordination between the spokesperson and the specialized function is not close, leading to the situation that the information provided is not timely and unclear. The investigation and handling of subjects who violate the people's right to information, spread misinformation, fabricate, defame, affect the honor and reputation of collectives and individuals... decisive, timely; sanctions are not strong enough...

Despite its limitations, Vietnam's achievements in ensuring the people's right to information are fundamental and undeniable. Those advances have been recognized and appreciated by international public opinion. The Party, State and people of Vietnam always strive to promote the achieved results and overcome shortcomings and limitations. On the other hand, Vietnam resolutely fights and rejects all false claims, distorts and distorts the truth about the guarantee of human rights in general and the right to information and access to information of the Vietnamese people in particular."	"Attending the workshop were Major General Nguyen Thanh Son, Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security, Ms. Elsbeth Akkerman, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Vietnam, Mr. Pier Giorgio Aliberti, Ambassador - Head of the EU Delegation to Vietnam, and representatives of functional units under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Public Security.
The workshop aims to exchange information and experiences, strengthen the work of the police force to prevent cybercrimes, ensure security and safety in cyberspace, and ensure human rights, with special focus on group members. Vulnerable subjects such as women and children are often targeted by cybercriminals...

Major General Nguyen Thanh Son, Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security
Speaking at the seminar, Major General Nguyen Thanh Son - Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security affirmed that in recent years, the Vietnamese Government has been promoting the construction of e-government, moving towards the economy. digital economy, constantly improving living conditions for people. The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the National Assembly of Vietnam on June 12, 2018 and officially took effect from January 1, 2019.
With 7 chapters and 43 articles, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates activities to protect national security, ensure social order and safety in cyberspace, besides the responsibilities of agencies, organizations, relevant individuals. After more than one year of taking effect, the Law on Cybersecurity has contributed to protecting the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, contributing to improving the effectiveness of the protection of sovereignty and interests. interests, national security, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, creating a legal mechanism to help fight cybercrime, and better ensure human rights.

Major General Nguyen Thanh Son talks with international delegates
At the seminar, the delegates shared the following topics: International law on activities in cyberspace; Sovereignty in cyberspace; The State's responsibility for cyber activities, the use of force and self-defense in cyberspace, etc., in order to improve the capacity to prevent, defend and prevent attacks in cyberspace to protect human rights and values. governance, interests and security of the country.

Over the past time, the EU has actively consulted on a draft Decree detailing a number of articles of the Cybersecurity Law in accordance with the order and procedures prescribed by Vietnamese law, in line with international practices. economic.

Speaking at the closing of the seminar, Ms. Elsbeth Akkerman, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Vietnam affirmed that the workshop contributed to the development of the Vietnam - Netherlands Comprehensive Partnership in general and the relationship between the Ministry of Public Security of Vietnam. and relevant agencies of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the European Union in particular are increasingly practical and in-depth"
"Firstly, it is an important legal basis to protect national security; handling violations of the law, such as: (*) Against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, including using cyberspace to organize, operate, collude, instigate, bribe , deceive, entice, train and train people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, for example, inciting information to attract large gatherings, disrupt security and order, and oppose law enforcement. official duties, obstructing the activities of agencies and organizations, causing instability in security and order... (*) Acts of distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, and sabotaging the great unity bloc whole nation, offending religion, discriminating on gender, racial discrimination; (*) Acts of spreading information harmful to organizations and individuals, including: false information causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, causing difficulties for activities. actions of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals; (*) Acts of infringing upon social order and safety such as using cyberspace for prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social ethics and public health, instigating, enticing and inciting others to commit crimes. (These acts have been sporadically regulated, specifically in 29 Articles of the Penal Code 2015, revised in 2017). (*) Acts of cyber attack, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism and related activities such as producing or putting into use tools, facilities, software or obstructing or disrupting network operation telecommunications, internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, electronic means...

Second, to protect information systems important to national security. An information system important to national security specified in the Law on Cybersecurity is an information system that is subject to an incident, intrusion, hijacking, falsification, interruption, stagnation, paralysis, Attack or sabotage will seriously compromise network security. With the above criteria, an important national security information system is identified in the fields of special importance to the country such as military, security, diplomacy, cipher; in specific fields such as storing and processing information belonging to state secrets; serving the operation of important projects related to national security, important national security goals or important information systems in the fields of energy, finance, banking, telecommunications , transportation, resources and environment, chemicals, healthcare, culture, journalism. The Government will specify which information systems in the above fields are on the list of information systems important for national security.

Cybersecurity protection for information systems important to national security is assigned to the network security protection force, which is directly the Cybersecurity force under the Ministry of Public Security, the Space Operations Force. network of the Ministry of Defense. To ensure compliance with the domestic legal system, the Cybersecurity Law also assigns the Government to specify the coordination between the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Government Cipher Board, functional ministries and branches in the appraisal, assessment, examination, supervision, response and troubleshooting of information systems important to national security.

Third, to prevent and combat cyber attacks. The Law on Cybersecurity is the first law document that stipulates the concept of ""cyber attack"". Accordingly, “Cyber ​​attack is an act of using cyberspace, information technology or electronic means to sabotage or disrupt the operation of telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases, electronic means”. At the same time, specify specific groups of behaviors related to cyber attacks in Articles 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21; specifying specific groups of solutions to prevent and combat cyber attacks, specifying the specific responsibilities of functional agencies and information system owners. So:

- Information systems of agencies, organizations and individuals are protected against cyberattacks in accordance with the Law on Cybersecurity.

- Information systems important to national security are protected commensurate with their importance to national security, social order and safety.

- Lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals are protected against acts of cyber attacks.

- The Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates a mechanism for coordination in preventing and combating cyber attacks of functional ministries and branches, and defines the specific responsibilities of the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense and the Government Cipher Committee in the prevention and control of cyber attacks. , against network attacks."	"The Law on Cybersecurity has been consulted by National Assembly deputies since March 2017.

Right at the meeting, before voting and approving, a number of articles with different opinions such as Articles 10 and 26 were also consulted at the National Assembly.

During the session, the agencies that drafted the Law on Cybersecurity and the National Assembly listened to and absorbed many opinions from agencies, scientists and people, etc., revised the document, so the law was approved. The National Assembly approved it with a high rate (86.86% of the delegates approved).

On June 28, 2018, the President's Office held a press conference to announce the President's Order on announcing the Cybersecurity Law and 6 other laws just passed by the National Assembly.

The Law on Cybersecurity will take effect from January 1, 2019.

Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 1
Illustration / Qdnd.vn
However, up to now, many Western news agencies, newspapers and many websites with servers in foreign countries still deliberately distort and obstruct the Law on Cybersecurity from coming to life.

They said: “The Cybersecurity Law opens the way for a new crackdown!”; that ""cybersecurity law raises human rights concerns and affects national commerce""...

After the Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly, led by overseas network information, some domestic dissidents incited people, leading to some disruptive protests in several places.

Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 2
What is the ultimate purpose of the Cybersecurity Law?

During these disruptive protests, slogans were pre-printed and distributed in advance.

It can be said that the hostile forces had a rather detailed and methodical plan to distort and hinder the Cybersecurity Law from coming to life.

So why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law?

Does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the State of Vietnam from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded?

What is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of opponents?

First of all, why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law?

Unlike previous historical periods, defending the Fatherland is protecting the border, protecting the land, airspace and sea of ​​the country, today, defending the Fatherland must also protect the electronic space of the Fatherland. country.

In fact, since the advent of the internet and social networks, there have been a number of uses of the internet and social networks to gather forces, incite protests, cause trouble, and call for the overthrow of the government.

Today, hostile forces have added a new method to sabotage the state, which is to use the internet and social networks to attack agencies and organizations, and even cause riots and overthrows. social regime.

Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 3
President: Cybersecurity Law protects the interests of internet users

For example, they use hackers (hackers) to cause economic, political and social instability.

Remember in March 2017 there was a case of hackers attacking a series of domestic airport websites, causing many flights to be disrupted and turned upside down.

The Internet and social networks used to be a method of spreading false information for malicious and despicable purposes, such as:

Fraudulent appropriation of property to mental terrorism - threatening to put personal information and private life online, causing many families to be broken, lives disturbed, even many people even seek death. ..

However, what is more dangerous is that hostile forces use the internet and social networks to carry out plans to overthrow the regime and the State by inciting people to gather in large numbers and demonstrate ""non-violently"". political instability, causing unpredictable consequences.

Therefore, the Vietnamese State needs to have strict sanctions against cybercriminals.

Second, does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the Vietnamese State from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded?

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles. Principles of network security protection are:

(1) Comply with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals;

(2) Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the unified management of the State; …

(3) Closely combine the task of protecting network security... ensuring human rights and citizens' rights, creating conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace…” (Article 4).

The Law on Cybersecurity only stipulates sanctions for using cyberspace to commit acts against the State, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals.

These are the following activities: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;

(2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc...;

(3) False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, etc., infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals;

(4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; sabotagecustoms and traditions of the nation…;

(5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes...

(6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations or individuals or for profit” (Article 8).

Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? 4 . photo
Must cut off the ""black hands"" that always provoke and destroy

Does the Law on Cybersecurity violate commitments with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), and large network enterprises such as Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam?

According to the report of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the WTO and CPTPP agreements have exceptions on security.

Accordingly, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and other services to store important data of service users in Vietnam - to set up a server in Vietnam. Virtualization in Vietnam is completely legal.

It is known that so far there have been more than 18 WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France) that require network businesses to store data in their territories. .

According to the National Assembly Standing Committee, currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong (China) and Singapore.

If the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect, it is feasible for these businesses to transfer and store data to Vietnam.

What about large network enterprises like Google, Facebook already present in Vietnam?

Vietnam is now a big market for them. Moreover, providing network services is now also a market that countries can choose from their point of view.

Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 5
Prime Minister wishes young people to be calm, sober, not let their guard down

For Vietnam, protecting and ensuring national security in cyberspace is always a top priority.

This is something that Google and Facebook definitely have to consider.

Recently, on July 5, when the Facebook social network named the Hoang Sa and Truong Sa archipelagoes in China's waters, it received a strong response from Vietnamese netizens and the Ministry of Information and Communications. pine.

In the end, this world's largest social network had to correct the mistake and apologize to Vietnam.

In terms of rights and interests of individuals, organizations and enterprises, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely unrestricted on the rights and interests of the above group of subjects, because the sanctions of the Cybersecurity Law only apply to those acts. committing crimes (through taking advantage of the internet, social networks-Article 8).

On the other hand, the Cybersecurity Law also protects people and businesses to always have a healthy, honest information environment, get rid of pollution such as air, drinking water and clean food for the spirit. .

Third, what is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of bad guys?

Unlike the Press Law, the Law on Access to Information, the Government's Decree on the management, provision and use of internet services and network information, etc., the Law on Cybersecurity has specific provisions to eliminate information. bad news, malicious right at the root, from websites that hostile forces are using to destroy the social regime and the State of Vietnam.

At the same time, the Law on Cybersecurity is the legal and scientific basis for handling those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to destroy the social regime and the State and harm individuals, organizations and businesses. industry of Vietnam.

Based on this law, the authorities have the right to require the network operators to provide full information of accounts that spread malicious information... and this is a big worry of the bad guys."
"After more than a year of taking effect, the Law on Cybersecurity contributes to protecting the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals, better ensuring human rights. ""International Law on Cyberspace"" is the name of the webinar held on August 27 in Hanoi. The workshop was co-organized by the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security of Vietnam, the Embassy of the Netherlands and the EU Delegation in Hanoi to implement the cooperation commitment between Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc and Prime Minister Ha Noi. Lan Mark Rutte on enhancing cooperation in the field of cybersecurity. Delegates to the seminar ""International Law on Cyberspace"" Attending the workshop were Major General Nguyen Thanh Son, Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security, Ms. Elsbeth Akkerman, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Vietnam, Mr. Pier Giorgio Aliberti, Ambassador - Head of the EU Delegation to Vietnam, and representatives of functional units under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Public Security. The workshop aims to exchange information and experiences, strengthen the work of the police force to prevent cybercrimes, ensure security and safety in cyberspace, and ensure human rights, with special focus on group members. Vulnerable subjects such as women and children are often targeted by cybercriminals... Major General Nguyen Thanh Son, Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security Speaking at the seminar, Major General Nguyen Thanh Son - Director of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Public Security affirmed that in recent years, the Vietnamese Government has been promoting the construction of e-government, moving towards the economy. digital economy, constantly improving living conditions for people. The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the National Assembly of Vietnam on June 12, 2018 and officially took effect from January 1, 2019. With 7 chapters and 43 articles, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates activities to protect national security, ensure social order and safety in cyberspace, besides the responsibilities of agencies, organizations, relevant individuals. After more than one year of taking effect, the Law on Cybersecurity has contributed to protecting the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, contributing to improving the effectiveness of the protection of sovereignty and interests. interests, national security, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, creating a legal mechanism to help fight cybercrime, and better ensure human rights. Major General Nguyen Thanh Son talks with international delegates At the seminar, the delegates shared the following topics: International law on activities in cyberspace; Sovereignty in cyberspace; The State's responsibility for cyber activities, the use of force and self-defense in cyberspace... in order to improve the capacity to prevent, defend, and prevent attacks in cyberspace to protect human rights and values. governance, interests and security of the country. Over the past time, the EU has actively consulted on the draft Decree detailing a number of articles of the Cybersecurity Law in accordance with the order and procedures prescribed by Vietnamese law, in line with international practices. economic. Speaking at the closing of the workshop, Ms. Elsbeth Akkerman, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Vietnam affirmed that the workshop contributed to the development of the Vietnam - Netherlands Comprehensive Partnership in general and the relationship between the Ministry of Public Security of Vietnam. and relevant agencies of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the European Union in particular are increasingly practical and in-depth./"	
"At the fifth session, the XIV National Assembly (from May 21 to June 15, 2018) discussed and decided on many important issues. At this meeting, the law-making work accounted for two-thirds of the time. At the end of the session, the National Assembly approved 8 bills, including the Law on Cybersecurity. The Law on Cybersecurity has been consulted by National Assembly deputies since March 2017. Right at the meeting, before voting and approving, a number of articles with different opinions such as Articles 10 and 26 were also consulted at the National Assembly. During the session, the agencies that drafted the Law on Cybersecurity and the National Assembly listened to and absorbed many opinions from agencies, scientists and people, etc., revised the document, so the law was approved. The National Assembly approved it with a high rate (86.86% of the delegates approved). On June 28, 2018, the President's Office held a press conference to announce the President's Order on announcing the Cybersecurity Law and 6 other laws just passed by the National Assembly. The Law on Cybersecurity will take effect from January 1, 2019. Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 1 Illustration / Qdnd.vn However, up to now, many Western news agencies, newspapers and many websites with servers in foreign countries still deliberately distort and obstruct the Law on Cybersecurity from coming to life. They said: “The Cybersecurity Law opens the way for a new crackdown!”; that ""cybersecurity law raises human rights concerns and affects national commerce""... After the Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly, led by overseas network information, some domestic dissidents incited people, leading to some disruptive protests in several places. Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 2 What is the ultimate purpose of the Cybersecurity Law? During these disruptive protests, slogans were pre-printed and distributed in advance. It can be said that the hostile forces had a rather detailed and methodical plan to distort and hinder the Cybersecurity Law from coming to life. So why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? Does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the State of Vietnam from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded? What is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of opponents? First of all, why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? Unlike previous historical periods, defending the Fatherland is protecting the border, protecting the land, airspace and sea of ​​the country, today, defending the Fatherland must also protect the electronic space of the Fatherland. country. In fact, since the advent of the internet and social networks, there have been a number of uses of the internet and social networks to gather forces, incite protests, cause trouble, and call for the overthrow of the government. Today, hostile forces have added a new method to sabotage the state, which is to use the internet and social networks to attack agencies and organizations, and even cause riots and overthrows. social regime. Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 3 President: Cybersecurity Law protects the interests of internet users For example, they use hackers (hackers) to cause economic, political and social instability. Remember in March 2017 there was a case of hackers attacking a series of domestic airport websites, causing many flights to be disrupted and turned upside down. The Internet and social networks used to be a method of spreading false information for malicious and despicable purposes, such as: Fraudulent appropriation of property to mental terrorism - threatening to put personal information and private life online, causing many families to be broken, lives disturbed, even many people even seek death. .. However, what is more dangerous is that hostile forces use the internet and social networks to carry out plans to overthrow the regime and the State by inciting people to gather in large numbers and demonstrate ""non-violently"". political instability, causing unpredictable consequences. Therefore, the Vietnamese State needs to have strict sanctions against cybercriminals. Second, does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the Vietnamese State from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded? The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles. Principles of network security protection are: (1) Comply with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; (2) Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the unified management of the State; … (3) Closely combine the task of protecting network security... ensuring human rights and citizens' rights, creating conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace…” (Article 4). The Law on Cybersecurity only stipulates sanctions for using cyberspace to commit acts against the State, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. These are the following activities: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; (2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc...; (3) CARDShe believes falsely, causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities... infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; (4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; destroy the nation's fine customs and traditions…; (5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes... (6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations or individuals or for profit” (Article 8). Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? 4 . photo Must cut off the ""black hands"" that always provoke and destroy Does the Law on Cybersecurity violate commitments with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), and large network enterprises such as Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam? According to the report of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the WTO and CPTPP agreements have exceptions on security. Accordingly, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and other services to store important data of service users in Vietnam - to set up a server in Vietnam. Virtualization in Vietnam is completely legal. It is known that so far there have been more than 18 WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France) that require network businesses to store data in their territories. . According to the National Assembly Standing Committee, currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong (China) and Singapore. If the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect, it is feasible for these businesses to transfer and store data to Vietnam. What about large network enterprises like Google, Facebook already present in Vietnam? Vietnam is now a big market for them. Moreover, providing network services is now also a market that countries can choose from their point of view. Why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? photo 5 Prime Minister wishes young people to be calm, sober, not let their guard down For Vietnam, protecting and ensuring national security in cyberspace is always a top priority. This is something that Google and Facebook definitely have to consider. Recently, on July 5, when the Facebook social network named the Hoang Sa and Truong Sa archipelagoes in China's waters, it received a strong response from Vietnamese netizens and the Ministry of Information and Communications. pine. In the end, this world's largest social network had to correct the mistake and apologize to Vietnam. In terms of rights and interests of individuals, organizations and enterprises, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely unrestricted on the rights and interests of the above group of subjects, because the sanctions of the Cybersecurity Law only apply to those acts. committing crimes (through taking advantage of the internet, social networks-Article 8). On the other hand, the Cybersecurity Law also protects people and businesses to always have a healthy, honest information environment, get rid of pollution such as air, drinking water and clean food for the spirit. . Third, what is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of bad guys? Unlike the Press Law, the Law on Access to Information, the Government's Decree on the management, provision and use of internet services and network information, etc., the Law on Cybersecurity has specific provisions to eliminate information. bad news, malicious right at the root, from websites that hostile forces are using to destroy the social regime and the State of Vietnam. At the same time, the Law on Cybersecurity is the legal and scientific basis for dealing with those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to destroy the social regime and the State and harm individuals, organizations and businesses. industry of Vietnam. Based on this law, the authorities have the right to require the network operators to provide full information of the accounts that spread malicious information ... and this is a big worry of the bad guys."	
"Representing the drafting agency is the Ministry of Public Security, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department, presented some outstanding contents of the Law on Cybersecurity.

The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly with the rate of 86.86%, including 7 chapters and 43 articles, with the contents of chapters including: General provisions; Protecting network security for important national information systems; Prevention and handling of acts of infringing upon network security; Network security protection activities; Ensuring network security protection activities; Responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals; Terms enforcement.

The Law on Cybersecurity has been elaborately and carefully prepared with the participation and contributions of ministries, functional agencies, more than 30 large domestic telecommunications and information technology enterprises, experts, and business groups. foreign telecommunications economy and public opinion.

Director of the Cybersecurity Department Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that in order to maximize the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, Chapter III of the Law on Cybersecurity fully stipulates measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and handle violations of the law.

The law will take effect from January 1, 2019.

Principles and measures to protect network security

 The Law on Cybersecurity provides for activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals. In which, cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; Cybersecurity protection is the prevention, detection, blocking and handling of acts of infringing upon network security.

The principle of cybersecurity protection is to comply with the Constitution and laws, to ensure the interests of the State, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the unified management of the State; mobilize the synergy of the political system and the whole nation; promote the core role of the force dedicated to protecting network security; Closely combine the task of protecting network security and protecting information systems important for national security with the task of socio-economic development, ensuring human and citizen rights, creating favorable conditions for for organizations and individuals operating in cyberspace; Actively prevent, detect, block, fight, and frustrate all activities using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. individual; ready to prevent threats to sovereignty, interests and national security in cyberspace; All acts of violating the law on network security must be handled promptly and strictly.

Measures to protect network security, including: Network security appraisal; Assess network security conditions; Network security check; Network security monitoring; Prevent, request to suspend or stop providing network information; suspend, temporarily suspend the establishment, provision and use of telecommunications networks, the internet, the production and use of radio transmitters and receivers in accordance with law; Request the deletion, access and deletion of illegal or untrue information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals core; Collecting electronic data related to activities that infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace; Blocking and restricting the operation of the information system; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name in accordance with the law; To prosecute, investigate, prosecute and adjudicate according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code; Other measures in accordance with the law on national security and the law on handling of administrative violations.

Prohibited acts on network security

That is, using cyberspace, information technology, and electronic means to violate the law on cyber security, including posting and disseminating information in cyberspace with content that appropriates, trades, and seizes. , intentionally disclosing state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life, affecting honor, reputation, dignity, rights and interests legitimate interests of agencies, organizations and individuals.

It is the act of intentionally deleting, damaging, losing or altering information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life. transmission and storage in cyberspace; intentionally altering, canceling or nullifying technical measures developed and applied to protect information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, secrets family secrets and private life; posting on cyberspace information that is state secret, work secret, business secret, personal secret, family secret and private life in contravention of the law.

Another prohibited act is intentionally listening to, recording, or illegally recording conversations The Law also prohibits organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; strictly prohibit acts of distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating on gender and racial discrimination; It is strictly forbidden to give false information that causes confusion among the people, causes damage to economic and social activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, and infringes upon the rights and interests of the public. law of other agencies, organizations and individuals.

Prohibited acts include prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes.

The law also prohibits acts of cyber attack, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security.

It is strictly forbidden to produce, put into use tools, facilities, and software or to obstruct or disrupt the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, processing systems. and control information, electronic means; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means; illegally infiltrating telecommunications networks, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means of others; oppose or obstruct the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures.

The law also prohibits taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the agency's sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of the agency. organizations, individuals or profiteering.

Those who commit acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability. compensation in accordance with the law.

Prevention and treatment

The Law specifically stipulates information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, including: Propaganda distorting and defaming the people's administration; causing psychological wars, inciting wars of aggression, division and hatred among nations, religions and peoples; insulting the nation, the national flag, the national emblem, the national anthem, great people, leaders, famous people, national heroes.

Information on cyberspace with content that incites riots, disrupts security or disrupts public order, includes: calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, divisive, conducting activities armed or used violence against the people's administration; calling for, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, causing division, manipulating large gatherings to cause trouble, oppose official duty performers, obstruct the operation of state agencies and social organizations in order to oppose politics people's rights or cause instability in security and order.

Information on cyberspace with humiliating or slanderous content, including: Information with content that seriously offends the dignity and honor of others; Fabricated or untrue information intended to seriously offend the dignity and honor or cause damage to the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals.

Information on cyberspace with content that infringes upon the economic management order, including: Information with fabricated or untrue content about products, goods, money, bonds, bills, bonds, checks and other valuable papers; Information with fabricated or untrue content in the fields of finance, banking, e-commerce, electronic payment, currency trading, capital raising, multi-level business, securities.

The law has provisions on prevention of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism... timely prevention and treatment.

Cybersecurity protection activities specify the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities in state agencies and political organizations at central and local levels; research and development of network security; Protecting children online…

The Law also stipulates the network security protection force, including the specialized force located in the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense; forces arranged in ministries, branches, provincial People's Committees, and organizations to directly manage information systems important to national security; organizations and individuals are mobilized to participate in protecting network security.

In addition to the specific provisions, there are four contents of the Law assigned to the Government for specific regulations, which are: Order and procedures for applying measures to protect network security; Security-critical information system conditions qcountry; Procedures for network security inspection; Enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks must store data created by users in Vietnam in Vietnam."	
"Not only that, the entire social networking platform of VOV1, VOV2, VOV TV channel… was also spammed with defamatory and disparaging content, and at the same time appeared some objects calling for publicity. boycotted by netizens, lowering VOV's rating to 1* (1 star) on Google map. The incident caused a stir in public opinion, especially when the Vietnam Revolutionary Press Day June 21 was approaching.

It is worth mentioning that the cyber attack occurred right after the VOV electronic newspaper had just published two articles reflecting a phenomenon that emerged in recent times related to the use of social networks to make deviant and offensive statements. and offending individuals and organizations, affecting social order. In the articles, there are comments from experts in many fields such as culture, education, law, and journalism, thereby giving an objective and multi-dimensional view of a current issue. public attention. This is a common and necessary journalistic activity in the context of the growing social network, which leads to the emergence of the trend that users have more and more negative and complicated ways of expressing themselves. timely adjustment. However, the right work of a news agency has been met by cyber attacks. Some subjects also openly manipulated, provoked, and instructed the online community on how to ""take down"" VOV electronic newspaper for publishing articles that these people disagreed with. Not stopping there, a number of reporters and figures who participated in expressing opinions in two articles became targets of insults and attacks on social networks; Their families and loved ones are also affected.
 
It can be seen that the incident is very serious because the technical background of a national media agency has been blatantly attacked. Professional activities of journalists and professionals are hindered. This is considered an act of defiance, disregarding the law, violating the Law on Cybersecurity (2018), the Law on Access to Information (2016), the Penal Code (2015) and most directly. is the Press Law (2016), which requires strict handling. Currently, the authorities are actively involved in the search for the culprit.
 
While the incident at VOV electronic newspaper has not yet subsided, on the afternoon of June 15, some newspapers continued to face intense cyber attacks. Specifically, Ho Chi Minh City Legal Newspaper (plo.vn) was also attacked by DDoS, causing network congestion and bandwidth overflow. For hours, readers could not access plo.vn.
 
On the same day, accessing the websites of the Liberation Saigon Newspaper and the Youth Newspaper was also very difficult and often interrupted. According to initial assessment, the method used by the subjects to attack the network on June 15 with the above newspapers is similar to the cyber attacks on VOV electronic newspaper.
 
From the above incident, there are issues that need to be quickly reviewed and resolved by the relevant authorities. In the past time, it is no longer unique for some subjects to provoke and attack the networks of press agencies and journalists in various ways. The risk of hackers attacking newspapers or electronic websites can happen at any time. This fact requires the press agencies to proactively equip technical plans, systems and response plans, in order to minimize damage to the lowest level if a bad situation occurs. In addition, it is necessary to build a synchronous coordination mechanism among relevant agencies to support and protect the cybersecurity of press agencies, as well as to protect the safety of journalists. true. The handling of subjects who commit violations and obstruct press activities should be strict and deterrent. For individuals who participate in promoting and abetting cyberattacks, they need to be considered responsible based on the provisions of the law. Doing these things well will contribute to creating a safe and healthy environment that helps press agencies, directly reporters and journalists, to perform well their duties and functions."	"First, it can be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity has absolutely no effect on people's right to freedom of speech. There is no law that provides regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using new network information like this. Never before has children's rights been so protected on online information. The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information. People are comfortable using the network to do activities that do not violate the law. There is absolutely no provision to impede free speech.

Only individuals who give false, fabricated, or insulting information according to 29 articles of the Penal Code will be handled. It is impossible to threaten to kill people online and be free, but in reality, they will be punished. It is impossible to freely buy and sell weapons, explosives, detailed instructions on how to use them, but in real life, they will be dealt with, but not on the internet… Who offends the nation, sovereignty, religion, or who discriminates against gender on the internet? …will be dealt with.

-Is it mandatory for businesses to disclose personal information to security agencies in violation of personal privacy protection?

No violation whatsoever. Because there is article 17 of the Law already. Article 17 is very strict to protect the privacy of individuals and families. ""Enterprises when providing telecommunications services, internet and value-added services... are responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts, and keeping user's account information confidential."" Therefore, it is the responsibility of the business to maintain confidentiality. Failure to do so will be handled.

""Provide information to users in charge of network security protection upon written request to serve the investigation of violations of the law on network security"". In the event that the Law provides so, it will be provided. For example, when I see an online exchange of buying and selling explosives to prepare for terrorism, the involved party must definitely provide information for us to handle, otherwise a disaster will occur.

In addition, information will not be arbitrarily provided and must be treated as confidential. If you reveal that secret, you will be held responsible. Right now a lot of our information is being leaked.

-But the sign of violation seems to be very vague, sir?

Not at all vague. This issue is referred to in 29 articles of the Criminal Law. If we detect signs of a bomb, we have to arrest it immediately. Information must be requested to verify if the person is true or just fabricated information. And after that, we can handle the law or handle it in another form.

And I believe that when formulating this, the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security and the Law Committee of the National Assembly scrutinized it very carefully.

-In the Law, there is a sentence that is quite vague. For example ""insulting great people"". So how to identify ""great man"", sir?

This must be appraised by the relevant functional ministries. If the Ministry replies that there is a violation, we will be handled. For example, related to credit fraud, it is necessary to ask the State Bank and financial economic groups to determine whether there is a violation. There are a lot of people losing money and this has to be verified by a cybersecurity agency. We have to step by step investigate, verify and clarify whether it is subjective, objective, age...

Of course, no law is perfect. Someone asked me, ""Does this law prevent acts in cyberspace?"". I replied: ""Criminal Law is enacted, but murder is still there, robbery is still there"". Having a Cybersecurity Law is there to provide scope for what is protected and to know prohibited behavior for us to avoid. Even the agency in charge of cybersecurity must rely on this Law to know what is prohibited and what is allowed.

-From now until the decree is formulated, will the editorial board continue to listen to people's opinions, sir?

The editorial board is always listening, always adjusting, always asking for what is appropriate to be submitted. All decrees are commented by agencies, economic groups, and internet telecommunications groups. I affirm so.

-During the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity, did we work with Google…?

The draft Law on Cybersecurity was developed in November 2016 according to the Resolution of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister then issued a decision to establish a Drafting Committee. Members include many ministries and branches, not only the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Defense, etc. During the construction process, the drafting committee also followed Decree 72 on setting up servers and offices in Vietnam. Then, when submitting the Law on Cybersecurity at the 4th Session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly also asked how to adjust it to suit the recommendations of businesses and internet telecommunications corporations.

During the drafting process, the drafting team also had the opportunity to approach major telecommunications corporations in the world such as Google, Facebook, Youtube, American Business Association, ASEAN.... Thereby to explain and listen to their opinions on our Cybersecurity bill.

After the two sides have worked and agreed, the representatives of those units have agreed toThey will adjust their strategy accordingly. The corporations themselves, these units also see our adjustments and regulations as appropriate. It is completely unlikely that Google and Facebook will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. And certainly with a market share like that of Vietnam, currently 48 million Facebook accounts and will certainly be larger, so there is no such thing as rumors. There is absolutely no information about this"
"Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan - Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, Ministry of Public Security - said so in an interview with the press about issues of public concern related to the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly. .

According to Lieutenant General Thuan, the draft law was developed in November 2016 according to the resolution of the National Assembly with the participation of many ministries and branches.

During the construction process, the Drafting Board received, considered and adjusted in accordance with the recommendations of businesses and telecommunications groups, and also approached the responsible people of Google and Facebook, the American Business Association. States to explain and listen.

* Many people fear that the Law on Cybersecurity will be passed, Facebook and Google will withdraw from Vietnam?

- There is no information about Google and Facebook withdrawing from Vietnam. Certainly with a market share in Vietnam of more than 48 million accounts, it is one of the leading markets of Facebook and Google.

According to my discussions with representatives of those corporations, I do not see that they have any other opinion. They only asked if the enactment of the law would have any effect. We explained and they thought this is a matter of relevance and will adjust the strategy, not as someone propagandize will have a huge influence.

* Is there an opinion that the Law on Cybersecurity violates international treaties to which Vietnam has committed?

- The law does not violate international treaties to which Vietnam is a signatory. We did a very detailed review. The National Defense and Security Committee also presented very fully. I have contacted and listened to diplomats as a member of the Editorial Board, they all confirm that there are exceptions and that every country is the same.

If it's forbidden in real life, it's also banned on the internet

* In the regulation of user data management, public opinion has raised the question that this will affect the user's freedom of speech. How do you comment?

This law does not affect freedom of speech. There is no law that provides new regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations using cyberspace like this law.

The law does nothing to impede freedom of speech. If we present our views correctly without violating 29 articles of the Penal Law, we will not be banned. Because it is forbidden in real life, it is also forbidden in cyberspace. It is impossible to threaten to kill people, guide the sale of weapons or incite demonstrations to bring petrol bombs and burn them... in real life, they will be dealt with, but online they will be comfortable.

* The Cybersecurity Law gives too much power to the authorities in determining what content is defaming leaders, denying revolutionary achievements... How to avoid judgmental and emotional evaluations , not objective?

- In fact, we have to do it properly. When determining content that violates the law, if it is related to information and communication issues, the Ministry of Information and Communications will appraise it. Regarding culture, the Ministry of Culture will appraise. The specialized agency of the Ministry of Public Security and National Defense will base on those assessments to request information when investigating law violations.

Thus, it can be affirmed that power cannot be abused. The prohibitions in the law clearly state that individuals, organizations and agencies in charge of cybersecurity protection take advantage of the Cybersecurity Law to infringe upon national security, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, social order and safety will certainly be handled in accordance with the law.

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan answers questions about the Cybersecurity Law on June 15- Video: Dignity

Only provide personal information when there are signs of violation

* Does the fact that businesses have to provide customer information to the police is an invasion of the privacy of individuals, confidentiality and security of correspondence, which are protected by the Constitution? Are businesses and personal accounts concerned about information disclosure?

- Currently, businesses themselves are storing a lot of personal data. Our parameters are being managed by them and are exposed and leaked a lot of personal information. For example, when you just got out of the airport, there was a message sent to take a taxi, or if you were in a meeting, you received a message to buy real estate ...

This leak is due to the bad management of the business. Businesses do not need to worry because the security agency has never asked for such concern before, only questioning the provision of information when that individual shows signs of breaking the law.

* Legal experts think that not only the police but only the courts can make this request, sir?

- Courts only convict when guilty. When there are signs of law violation, the appraisal agency is the competent agency.

In the Criminal Procedure Law, it is very clear that when there are signs of law violation, the competent authorities are entitled to investigate. That sign of law violation, the cyber security authority of the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense must examine the documents to determine. Only then will telecommunications and internet businesses be requested to provide information.

It is unlikely that the authorities will monitor all accounts on social networks. We only recommend businessesDomestic and foreign files provide information when investigating violations of the law as specified in Article 26.

* But the concept of signs of violation is very vague?

- Completely unambiguous because there are prohibited areas and are referred to by 29 articles of the Criminal Law. When formulating the law, the National Defense and Security Committee has carefully reviewed it. If we detect signs of a crime, we must definitely handle it and request information to clarify and verify whether it is correct or not. Only then can we deal with the law.

Keep listening and adjusting

* In what cases is the content posted on social networks considered to slander the Party and State leaders, insult the leader? Is calling people to protest considered prohibited under the Cybersecurity Law?

- It can be considered that this is a dangerous situation in terms of cybersecurity when there is a phenomenon of inciting protests and causing trouble in the coming days.

We have to solve this story so that the bad forces do not take advantage of our compatriots to beat our own people, destroy the people's own property to spend on shopping.

And when insulting great people, we must have the assessment of the Ministry of Culture to see if the violation is true or not. Only when the Ministry of Culture answers correctly that there is an insult, it will be implemented.

Countries are very strict about the network environment. We are too loose, too free. Our privacy is lost, usurped, skewered.

* Recently, Mr. Nguyen Si Dung, former deputy head of the Office of the National Assembly, said that the Law on Cybersecurity to protect national security is an unfortunate confusion about the object of the law. How do you comment?

- The Law on Cybersecurity has clearly stated its scope of regulation, according to which, cyber security is the assurance that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, rights and interests. and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals."	
"Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan gave an interview to the press about the Law on Cybersecurity just passed by the National Assembly. - Sir, how does the Law on Cybersecurity affect people's freedom of speech? First, it can be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity has absolutely no effect on people's right to freedom of speech. There is no law that provides regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using new network information like this. Never before has children's rights been so protected on online information. The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information. People are comfortable using the network to do activities that do not violate the law. There is absolutely no provision to impede free speech. Only individuals who give false, fabricated, or insulting information according to 29 articles of the Penal Code will be handled. It is impossible to threaten to kill people online and be free, but in reality, they will be punished. It is impossible to freely buy and sell weapons, explosives, detailed instructions on how to use them, but in real life, they will be dealt with, but not on the internet… Who offends the nation, sovereignty, religion, or who discriminates against gender on the internet? …will be dealt with. -Is it mandatory for businesses to disclose personal information to security agencies in violation of personal privacy protection? No violation whatsoever. Because there is article 17 of the Law already. Article 17 is very strict to protect the privacy of individuals and families. ""Enterprises when providing telecommunications services, internet and value-added services... are responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts, and keeping user's account information confidential."" Therefore, it is the responsibility of the business to maintain confidentiality. Failure to do so will be handled. ""Provide information to users in charge of network security protection upon written request to serve the investigation of violations of the law on network security"". In the event that the Law provides so, it will be provided. For example, when I see an online exchange of buying and selling explosives to prepare for terrorism, the involved party must definitely provide information for us to handle, otherwise a disaster will occur. In addition, information will not be arbitrarily provided and must be treated as confidential. If you reveal that secret, you will be held responsible. Right now a lot of our information is being leaked. -But the sign of violation seems to be very vague, sir? Not at all vague. This issue is referred to in 29 articles of the Criminal Law. If we detect signs of a bomb, we have to arrest it immediately. Information must be requested to verify if the person is true or just fabricated information. And after that, we can handle the law or handle it in another form. And I believe that when formulating this, the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security and the Law Committee of the National Assembly scrutinized it very carefully. -In the Law, there is a sentence that is quite vague. For example ""insulting great people"". So how to identify ""great man"", sir? This must be appraised by the relevant functional ministries. If the Ministry replies that there is a violation, we will be handled. For example, related to credit fraud, it is necessary to ask the State Bank and financial economic groups to determine whether there is a violation. There are a lot of people losing money and this has to be verified by a cybersecurity agency. We have to step by step investigate, verify and clarify whether it is subjective, objective, age... Of course, no law is perfect. Someone asked me, ""Does this law prevent acts in cyberspace?"". I replied: ""Criminal Law is enacted, but murder is still there, robbery is still there"". Having a Cybersecurity Law is there to provide scope for what is protected and to know prohibited behavior for us to avoid. Even the agency in charge of cybersecurity must rely on this Law to know what is prohibited and what is allowed. -From now until the decree is formulated, will the editorial board continue to listen to people's opinions, sir? The editorial board is always listening, always adjusting, always asking for the right content to be submitted. All decrees are commented by agencies, economic groups, and internet telecommunications groups. I affirm so. -During the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity, did we work with Google…? The draft Law on Cybersecurity was developed in November 2016 according to the Resolution of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister then issued a decision to establish a Drafting Committee. Members include many ministries and branches, not only the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Defense, etc. During the construction process, the drafting committee also followed Decree 72 on setting up servers and offices in Vietnam. Then, when submitting the Law on Cybersecurity at the 4th Session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly also asked how to adjust it to suit the recommendations of businesses and internet telecommunications corporations. During the drafting process, the drafting committee also had the opportunity to approach the world's major telecommunications corporations such as Google, Facebook,Youtube, American Business Association, ASEAN…. Thereby to explain and listen to their opinions on our Cybersecurity bill. After the two sides worked and agreed, the representatives of those units agreed to adjust their strategies accordingly. The corporations themselves, these units also see our adjustments and regulations as appropriate. It is completely unlikely that Google and Facebook will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. And certainly with a market share like that of Vietnam, currently 48 million Facebook accounts and will certainly be larger, so there is no such thing as rumors. There is absolutely no information about this."	
"According to Mr. Nguyen Huy Dung, today's press agencies apply many different technologies and need to ensure information security. This work needs to go hand in hand with the digital transformation of the press agency. In addition, the media is also often seen as a target for hackers.

Mr. Dung said, the summary shows that when a cyber attack occurs, the press - media is one of the three targets of attack along with the network, electricity or a combined attack on all three groups. this object at the same time. For example, in the cyberattack on Ukraine in January 2017, the attackers took control of all three target groups: the press - the network operator - the electricity. The cyber attack at that time caused the press to report false information, the people who lost power were bewildered… but the target of the attack was for another purpose.

The Department of Information Security recommends that the press agency choose a network security partner. Vietnam has many good enterprises in the field of network safety and security. Press information systems are all level 3 and 4 information systems. Accordingly, the Department of Information Security recommends that press agencies urgently apply measures to ensure information security, comply with standards and regulations. national cybersecurity.

One point worth noting is that most of the attacks, the attackers often target the weakest point of the system, which is located in the end user, not the server, administrator... As noted by the Information Security Administration , many attacks stem from sending an email of work-related content. Out of curiosity, users can click (click) on that email. The content of the email, the attached word file is very normal, but when the user clicks it, it will activate the malicious code, infecting that user's device.

When a user's content and files are infected with malicious code and sent to colleagues, other colleagues are also infected. From there, the system of ordinary users will escalate exclusively to infect systems, potentially exposing information to the outside, even taking control of the system.

Mr. Dung also mentioned that there is a remarkable statistic that more than 80% of the risk, the risk of being hacked is aimed at the end user and comes from the end user. Therefore, it is very important to disseminate, propagate and raise awareness of the end user community.

“The Internet is inherently insecure, while the digital society and digital economy depend on the Internet. Therefore, the dissemination of information security to users will contribute to promoting digital payment, e-commerce, and society. The right propaganda to create a sense of security, a safe and healthy cyberspace, international businesses can rest assured to invest in Vietnam,"" Dung emphasized.

According to a statistic of the Department of Information Security, 60% of news and articles on information security focus on risks and loss of information security. The Internet community has developed, so news and articles should focus on supporting users and guiding users on a safe network environment instead of the current 20%, promoting positive energy for users.

Information about technology also needs to be verified to ensure authenticity. Mr. Dung expected press agencies and journalists to accompany the Department of Information Security to enhance information security for press agencies' systems as well as ensure a safe network environment."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity has been consulted by National Assembly deputies since March 2017. Right at the meeting, before voting and approving, a number of articles with different opinions such as Articles 10 and 26 were also consulted at the National Assembly. During the session, the agencies that drafted the Law on Cybersecurity and the National Assembly listened to and absorbed many opinions from agencies, scientists and people, etc., revised the document, so the law was approved. The National Assembly approved it with a high rate (86.86% of the delegates approved). On June 28, 2018, the President's Office held a press conference to announce the President's Order on announcing the Cybersecurity Law and 6 other laws just passed by the National Assembly. The Law on Cybersecurity will take effect from January 1, 2019.


Illustration.
However, up to now, many Western news agencies, newspapers and many websites with servers in foreign countries still deliberately distort and obstruct the Law on Cybersecurity from coming to life. They said: “The Cybersecurity Law opens the way for a new crackdown!”; that ""cybersecurity law raises human rights concerns and affects national commerce""...

After the Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly, led by overseas network information, some domestic dissidents incited people, leading to some disruptive protests in several places. During these disruptive protests, slogans were pre-printed and distributed in advance. It can be said that the hostile forces had a rather detailed and methodical plan to distort and hinder the Cybersecurity Law from coming to life.

So why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law? Does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the State of Vietnam from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded? What is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of opponents?

First of all, why does Vietnam need a Cybersecurity Law?

Unlike previous historical periods, defending the Fatherland is protecting the border, protecting the land, airspace and sea of ​​the country, today, defending the Fatherland must also protect the electronic space of the Fatherland. country. In fact, since the advent of the internet and social networks, there have been a number of uses of the internet and social networks to gather forces, incite protests, cause trouble, and call for the overthrow of the government. Today, hostile forces have added a new method to sabotage the state, which is to use the internet and social networks to attack agencies and organizations, and even cause riots and overthrows. social regime. For example, they use hackers (hackers) to cause economic, political and social instability. Remember in March 2017, there was a case of hackers attacking a series of domestic airport websites, causing many flights to be disrupted and turned upside down.

The Internet and social networks used to be a method of spreading false information for malicious and despicable purposes, such as: Fraud to appropriate property to mental terrorism - threatening to post personal information online, private life, causing many families to be broken, lives disturbed, even many people find death...

However, what is more dangerous is that hostile forces use the internet and social networks to carry out plans to overthrow the regime and the State by inciting people to gather in large numbers and demonstrate ""non-violently"". political instability, causing unpredictable consequences. Therefore, the Vietnamese State needs to have strict sanctions against cybercriminals.

Second, does the Law on Cybersecurity infringe on people's rights and interests, hinder the Vietnamese State from implementing international commitments to which Vietnam has signed and acceded?

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles. The principles of network security protection are: (1) Complying with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; (2) Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the unified management of the State; ... (3) Closely combine the task of protecting network security... ensuring human rights and citizens' rights, creating conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace…” (Article 4).

The Law on Cybersecurity only stipulates sanctions for using cyberspace to commit acts against the State, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. These are the following activities: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; (2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc...; (3) False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, etc., infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; (4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; destroy the nation's fine customs and traditions…; (5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes... (6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon sovereignty, interests, national security, order, social safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals or for self-seeking purposes” (Article 8).Does the Law on Cybersecurity violate commitments with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), and large network enterprises such as Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam?

According to the report of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the WTO and CPTPP agreements have exceptions on security. Accordingly, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and other services to store important data of service users in Vietnam - to set up a server in Vietnam. Virtualization in Vietnam is completely legal. It is known that so far there have been more than 18 WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France) that require network businesses to store data in their territories. . According to the National Assembly Standing Committee, currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong (China) and Singapore. If the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect, it is feasible for these businesses to transfer and store data to Vietnam.

What about large network enterprises like Google, Facebook already present in Vietnam? Vietnam is now a big market for them. Moreover, providing network services is now also a market that countries can choose from their point of view. For Vietnam, protecting and ensuring national security in cyberspace is always a top priority. This is something that Google and Facebook definitely have to consider. Recently, on 5-7, when the facebook social network named the two archipelagoes of Hoang Sa and Truong Sa in China's waters, it received a strong response from Vietnamese netizens and the Ministry of Information and Communications. pine. In the end, this world's largest social network had to correct the mistake and apologize to Vietnam.

In terms of rights and interests of individuals, organizations and enterprises, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely unrestricted on the rights and interests of the above group of subjects, because the sanctions of the Cybersecurity Law only apply to those acts. committing crimes (through taking advantage of the internet, social networks-Article 8). On the other hand, the Cybersecurity Law also protects people and businesses to always have a healthy, honest information environment, get rid of pollution such as air, drinking water and clean food for the spirit. .

Third, what is the purpose of distorting and obstructing the Cybersecurity Law from entering the lives of bad guys?

Unlike the Press Law, the Law on Access to Information, the Government's Decree on the management, provision and use of internet services and network information, etc., the Law on Cybersecurity has specific provisions to eliminate information. bad news, malicious right at the root, from websites that hostile forces are using to destroy the social regime and the State of Vietnam. At the same time, the Law on Cybersecurity is the legal and scientific basis for handling those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to destroy the social regime and the State and harm individuals, organizations and businesses. industry of Vietnam. Based on this law, the authorities have the right to require the network operators to provide full information of the accounts that spread malicious information ... and this is a big worry of the bad guys."	
"Regarding the Law on Cybersecurity and the Law on Special Economic Zones, General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong said that recently there have been protests, taking advantage of the people's patriotism, and inciting the elements to cause trouble. On the morning of June 17, General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and a delegation of the National Assembly of Hanoi met voters in Thanh Xuan and Ha Dong districts after the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly. After listening to the voters' opinions, the General Secretary spent a considerable part of his time talking more about issues related to the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units (referred to as the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units for short). zone) was pushed back and the new Cybersecurity Law was passed in its 5th session. The General Secretary talked about the Law on Cybersecurity and the Law on Special Zones: There is incitement to patriotism - Photo 1. General Secretary met voters in Hanoi on the morning of June 17 - Photo: Nguyen Nam Regarding the two laws mentioned above, the General Secretary commented that recently the public opinion and the press in the country are ""boiling"" and there are protests, taking advantage of the people's patriotism, inciting elements to cause trouble. . ""We focus on correcting, overcoming and strictly handling those who lead and oppose bad motives,"" the General Secretary emphasized. Separately explaining the Law on Special Economic Zones, the General Secretary said that Vietnam has advocated building a special economic zone since the 1990s of the last century. At that time, Mr. Vo Van Kiet was Prime Minister and went to survey Van Phong (Khanh Hoa) area for testing. Recognizing that this is a way to attract investment and is also a ""difficult, new, sensitive and important"" issue, the General Secretary said the steps are very cautious. ""The Resolution of the Central Committee and the directives clearly state how to be effective because it is related to national defense, security and social safety, how to promote strength at home and abroad while ensuring Sovereignty. That is the consistency. As for the specific design, each country is different, each region is different, ""- the General Secretary affirmed. The Party General Secretary also further analyzed: When there are suggestions, the Party, State and National Assembly need to listen, absorb, and pass them when they are perfected. ""Where have we approved, leaving to have more time to work. From the afternoon of June 8 it was decided to stop, why did they still protest until June 10 and 11, proving that they have intentions""- General Secretary pointed out. Talking more about the content of 99-year land lease, which caused a stir in public opinion, the General Secretary affirmed that ""it does not have to be handed over to country A, which country B can rent it freely, but depending on the specific project"". According to the current law, the land lease term is regulated not to exceed 70 years. But, because this is a special zone, according to the original plan, to encourage investment, the regulation should not exceed 99 years. However, to be able to lease land with that term, it must go through many processes and be approved by the Prime Minister. ""Using this point to say that China in 99 years is losing its country, inciting protests to express patriotism, leading to anti-corruption and sabotage. The deep essence is to distort the truth and provoke. the people's genuine patriotism to plot other things, having the hands of saboteurs, not excluding foreign elements,"" the General Secretary pointed out and wanted voters to be very alert, calm, and confident. the leadership of the Party, State and Government. The General Secretary added: ""It's all for the country, for the people, not for any other purpose, no one foolishly or naively assigns land to a foreign country for people to come here."" The General Secretary also noted the vandalism of elements that existed before with the 2001 and 2004 incidents in the Central Highlands, and 2014 in Muong Nhe. Noting that taking advantage of protests to disrupt politics is very dangerous, the General Secretary also asked voters and people to soberly criticize and smash the destructive negativity. Regarding the raised issues related to the Law on Cybersecurity, the General Secretary also said that there was agitation. The General Secretary said: ""In the world, many countries have this law. In the era of the 4.0 technology revolution, there are many benefits, but on the other hand, it is very difficult to manage. From here, there are incitements, demonstrations, and troubles. , to overthrow the government. Therefore, we need this law to protect this regime. We can't say whatever we want to say. It's very beneficial, but it's very dangerous if we're not vigilant. There must be laws to protect cybersecurity, national security and citizens' rights."" The General Secretary also very frankly shared that if there are internal defects, they should be corrected, not indulged or hidden, however, using them to provoke and oppose the regime will result in loss of the country and the regime. ""These two laws are very sensitive. The Law on Cybersecurity has been passed, the Law on Special Economic Zones will continue to be researched and perfected, if it is beneficial, it will be passed""- the General Secretary concluded."	
"Digital transformation in the banking and finance sector is an inevitable and objective trend, in order to expand the scope of activities and increase competitiveness in the industry; at the same time, taking care and providing payment services to a variety of customers, promoting non-cash payment activities. However, along with the utility of digital banks, there are risks, such as: hackers attacking the bank's data system to steal data; Setting up websites impersonating banks to appropriate information and assets, defrauding customers... is posing many challenges in protecting customers consuming digital financial services. The article analyzes the current situation of customer protection activities of digital financial services in Vietnam, on that basis, to propose some solutions to overcome. DEVELOPMENT OF DIGITAL BANKING SERVICES IN VIETNAM AND ISSUES Along with the development of technology, internet connectivity and the increasing rate of users of smart mobile devices, the digital financial services market is growing at a rapid rate in Vietnam. The Covid-19 pandemic occurred with the requirement of social distancing, increasing the development opportunities of digital services in general, including digital banking services in particular. Some trends in the development of digital banking services can be mentioned that are popular in the Vietnamese market today, such as: automatic banking services have been researched and implemented by many banks, such as Home Banking, Internet Banking. , Mobile Banking, e-wallets... The development of information technology with applications of artificial intelligence, Chatbot... has helped organizations providing financial and payment services to promote transaction support activities. , customer consultation 24/7; at the same time, integrate to create a digital ecosystem that spreads payment connection with public services, finance, telecommunications, electricity, transportation, healthcare... so that, on network-connected devices, customers can can use more utilities than face-to-face transactions. Currently, there are more than 100 financial technology enterprises (Fintech) operating, mainly in the fields of payment and personal finance, P2P peer-to-peer lending (directly connecting borrowers with lenders). on the internet via online apps) has worked quite effectively, helping to shorten the loan approval time from a few weeks at traditional banks to just a few hours. Up to now, the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) has granted a license to provide intermediary payment services to 43 organizations that are not banks. In general, the whole country currently has over 80,000 QR code payment points, 78 internet payment service providers, 49 mobile payment service providers, 30 commercial banks and 6 payment intermediary service providers coordinate to deploy [1]. Protecting financial consumers against the strong development of digital financial services in Vietnam today The development of digital financial services has brought convenient experience opportunities for consumers. According to statistics of the State Bank, in the period 2015-2020, the total number of payments via internet channels increased by 262.5%, the payment value increased by 353%; Mobile payments increased 1,000% in volume but up 3,000% in value. In the first 8 months of 2021, the total number of transactions via the inter-bank electronic payment system increased by 3.32% in quantity and 41.37% in value over the same period in 2020; payment via internet channel increased by 54.13% in quantity and 30.70% in value respectively over the same period in 2020, via mobile phone channel increased by 74.98% and 93.69% respectively. QR code channel increased by 66.81% and 133.12% respectively. Thus, mobile payments have far surpassed internet payments. The development of digital financial services has brought convenient experience opportunities for consumers, but also created many risks that they have to face, such as: (i) Risks of information security. Currently, information disclosure, theft, buying and selling of personal data are common in cyberspace. More and more subjects collect, analyze and process personal data for different purposes, but do not notify customers or allow illegal acts to occur. (ii) Risks from fraud, online fraud. Taking advantage of network security holes, hackers attack the bank's data system through its partners; attack directly on the website to change the interface to extort money and get data; penetrate the system to execute money transfer orders in order to appropriate information and assets of the Bank and customers; setting up websites impersonating banks to defraud customers; create online loan applications that transform from black credit to perform illegal credit contracts. Attacks on networked devices of low-security digital finance consumers to seize assets. (iii) Technology risks (risks due to technical problems and network problems). This is also a risk mentioned a lot when applying digital banking financial services because the more modern technology is, the more difficulties it will pose, leading to risks and losses that people cannot control. The situation of loss of signal, network congestion due to overload of transmission lines has affectedaffecting the quality of digital banking services, such as: delay in liquidity, financial loss. Although these risks and losses have only been recorded on a small and odd scale and scope, they are partly causing some consumers to panic and fear when using the service. (iv) Risks on legal aspects. Some legal regulations are slow to adjust, not keeping up with the development of new technology, which has affected the application of high technology in digital banking. As a result, it may lead to legal risks in legal disputes of customers consuming digital financial services. (v) Risks in customer authentication. Identifying the identity when a customer opens an online account is very likely to be risky, because the bank does not have enough proof of customer verification like the transaction method at the counter. Meanwhile, customer identity authentication is a very important job to reduce risk, reveal identity or perform illegal transactions. DIGITAL FINANCIAL CONSUMERS PROTECTION POLICY Digital financial consumption activities usually have the presence of 3 participants in the digital banking space, including: NH, customers and associated partners of the bank; in which, all 3 subjects can become ""gateways"" for cybercriminals to attack. But, in any respect, the subject of risk is also a consumer of digital finance. An example is that, while banks pay special attention to ensuring network security, the counterparty does not attach great importance to this issue; and in many cases there is insufficient capacity and infrastructure for information security. In fact, there has been a case of NH being attacked only from promotional emails that they have hired a 3rd party to perform. If to bypass NH's security system, hackers must have a certain level, then the attack from NH service users is much simpler, with no new trick of hitting greed, lack of customer understanding. Many recent cases have shown that by enticing customers to log into the fake bank website and declare security information to receive gifts, receive money from abroad... Most recently, Techcombank discovered that fraudsters took advantage of the loan needs of people who lost their jobs and reduced incomes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, pretending to be bank employees offering loans through forms they invented themselves, such as liquidation. loan records. It can be seen that many customers are not aware that personal information is also an asset that needs to be protected. Because from the personal information, such as: identity card number, bank account number, phone number, or date of birth..., they are often easily left on social networks, through transactions Buying and selling online has become a guide for crooks to find scams. While cybercriminals have many tricks to attack subjects participating in digital financial consumption activities with risks belonging to customers, financial consumer protection policies revealed a series of limitations and inadequacies, specifically: First, there is also a ""gap"" in the legal framework that specifically regulates financial consumer protection. Currently, the legal bases that are applied to adjust to digital financial consumers are mainly: Law on Protection of Consumer Rights, passed by the National Assembly on November 17, 2010; a number of specialized laws and sub-law documents belong to laws, such as: Law on Credit Institutions; Law on Securities, Law on Insurance. In addition, all current regulations are only suitable for traditional transactions and services, without taking into account some new methods, especially the development of the digital economy and the Industrial Revolution. Industry 4.0. Along with that, at present, Vietnam does not have a specialized statutory agency responsible for consumer protection in the financial sector; The coordination between specialized agencies related to digital finance is also inadequate, leading to inadequate management and investment of necessary resources in the protection of digital financial consumers. . This indicates that financial consumers are not considered vulnerable; The issue of protecting digital financial consumers in the context of digital economy transformation is still incomplete in terms of legislation and implementation monitoring mechanism. Second, the handling of complaints about the security of financial consumer information is not very effective. According to the results of a survey of 540 random number financial consumers in Hanoi about the need to provide legal advice to customers in personal information security incidents of the Young Research Group of the Student Banks, up to 97% of customers do not complain about things they are not satisfied with, because they are afraid of collisions or take time for administrative procedures to resolve complaints. Most of the time, the handling of disputes related to banking financial activities according to the provisions of financial contracts is handled in the final agency which is the court, the proceedings are lengthy and expensive [4]. . In addition, although Vietnamese law has quite strict sanctions against those who illegally collect and use thehe believes consumers personally with a maximum penalty of up to 7 years in prison, but is almost only applied when there is great damage, in fact, very few cases in this field are handled. Third, investment costs for customer information security are not satisfactory. To ensure smooth, safe and accurate digital banking services, banks have been constantly investing in information safety and security. A survey by the Vietnam Cyber ​​Emergency Response Center in 2020 shows that 100% of credit institutions invest in security and security solutions from basic to advanced, such as firewalls, systems. intrusion detection; multi-factor authentication anti-virus system; anti-spam system; data filtering system; digital signature technology KPI; biometric authentication... However, investment costs for information security in general still account for a small proportion (less than 10%) of the total investment capital for developing digital banking products and services. SOME SOLUTIONS TO PROTECT FINANCIAL CONSUMERS IN THE DIGITAL ECONOMY IN VIETNAM TODAY No matter how much technology develops, it will allow digital banking financial services to develop there and with that, cybercriminals also take advantage of the advancement of technology to attack the digital banking system, so no stop increasing risks for digital financial consumers. In order to protect digital financial consumers in Vietnam in the context of the deepening and deepening impacts of integration and the 4.0 Revolution, according to the authors, it is necessary to effectively and synchronously implement the following solutions: First, establish a legal framework for financial consumer protection. The regulatory framework should be directed to all stakeholders (financial consumers, financial consumer protection organizations, agencies directly responsible for financial consumer protection, etc.) That is the basis for regulating the conduct of each party, helping to protect the interests of financial consumers. Accordingly, forming a legal framework to protect financial consumers is: building a legal corridor on data protection, protecting user data privacy in order to create a secure digital transaction environment, safety, protect consumers, promote public trust in performing digital transactions and using digital services. Along with that, it is necessary to complete the Decree on electronic identification and authentication in order to further facilitate electronic transactions and digital services, thereby enhancing support for digital economy activities. At the same time, speed up the research and development of the Law on Electronic Transactions to replace or amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Transactions 2005 to create a legal basis for ministries and branches to complete relevant legal provisions. related, help promote digitalization, digital application, create a favorable transaction environment for people and businesses through digital channels, electronic methods. Second, establish a specialized agency to monitor the compliance of financial institutions in carrying out their responsibility to protect financial consumers. This body must have certain authority, operate objectively and independently; has sufficient power, resources and capacity in inspection, supervision and is responsible for proposing policies and legal frameworks on financial consumer protection. In parallel, a financial consumer association should be established to act as a representative to protect the interests of financial consumers when their interests are violated; At the same time, it is an information channel providing financial knowledge and warning of cyber security risks to financial consumers to raise awareness and proactively prevent. Third, improve the responsibility of banks and financial service providers in protecting financial consumers. This requires investment in a total solution from the development of hardware technical infrastructure to security software solutions and a team of security experts, financial professionals, and digital banks. Specific solutions include: - Pay attention to network security management: Banks and financial institutions need to pay attention to building and upgrading a high-level security and privacy system. Synchronously deploying solutions to protect, prevent and prevent data leakage and leakage on the entire information system; strengthen inspection and supervision of the entire process and stages with potential risks of information security. Develop processes, scenarios and organize periodic drills to respond to incidents and risks of information insecurity in order to improve capacity to prevent and reduce negative impacts and consequences of attacks. public network… - Developing a strategy for human resource development in the Finance - Banking sector in the digital economy; strengthening and improving the quality of high-tech human resource training is implemented throughout the financial system, contributing to guiding and supporting digital banking consumers. Fourth, build a self-protection mechanism for financial consumers. Strengthen financial education, raise public awareness and understanding of financial products and services, thereby reducing the risk of financial loss during service use, and help people decisions can be madeFinancially transparent. At the same time, promote communication activities, provide information, warn financial consumers against the tricks of cybercriminals to attack on unsafe transactions of financial consumers. main number. In addition, consumers must actively prevent fraud and avoid being taken advantage of by fraudsters: do not provide confidential information for digital banking services, protect and change passwords regularly. access secure digital banking services according to safety principles; do not visit untrusted websites, or enter any links that request to provide or update personal information and digital banking service information; Register to use the active message receiving service to receive notifications of changes related to personal accounts…"	
"Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”.
In cyberspace, citizens' right to freedom of speech is also protected by law - ensuring that activities in cyberspace do not harm national security, social order and safety, rights and interests. legitimate interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. Organizations and individuals operating in cyberspace must comply with the general provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Cyberinformation Security 2018,.... In Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity, prohibited acts such as: False information causing confusion among the people, infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals; Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations or individuals or for profit;…


The right to ""freedom of speech"" in cyberspace: How to comply so as not to violate it?
Thus, the exercise of the citizen's right to freedom of speech must be within the framework of the Constitution and the law, in accordance with the moral values, culture and fine traditions of the Vietnamese nation. Individuals who misunderstand or take advantage of the right to freedom of speech, through social networking platforms to make indiscriminate and groundless statements, infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals .

Specifically, the person who commits the act may be administratively sanctioned according to the provisions of Clause 1, Article 101 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP of the Government Regulations on sanctioning of administrative violations in the postal sector. electricity, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions, as follows: “A fine of between VND 10 million and VND 20 million shall be imposed for taking advantage of social networks to commit a crime. in the following acts: Providing, sharing fake information, untrue information, distorting, slandering, insulting the reputation of agencies, organizations, honor and dignity of individuals; Providing and sharing information promoting customs, superstition, superstition, lewdness, debauchery, not in line with the nation's fine customs and traditions;

If there are enough elements to constitute a crime specified in the Penal Code, the person who commits the act may be examined for penal liability for the crime of humiliating another person, specified in Article 155 of the Penal Code or the crime of humiliating others. slander, specified in Article 156 of the Penal Code. Even if you broadcast unverified information directly, use insulting words, insult the honor and dignity of others, disregard the law, you may be prosecuted. The crime of ""abusing democratic freedoms and rights to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals"", is prescribed in Article 331 of the Penal Code."	"After listening to the voters' opinions, the General Secretary spent a considerable part of his time talking more about issues related to the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units (referred to as the Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units for short). zone) was pushed back and the new Cybersecurity Law was passed in its 5th session.

The General Secretary talked about the Law on Cybersecurity and the Law on Special Zones: There is incitement to patriotism - Photo 1.
General Secretary met voters in Hanoi on the morning of June 17 - Photo: Nguyen Nam

Regarding the two laws mentioned above, the General Secretary commented that recently the public opinion and the press in the country are ""boiling"" and there are protests, taking advantage of the people's patriotism, inciting elements to cause trouble. .

""We focus on correcting, overcoming and strictly handling those who lead and oppose bad motives,"" the General Secretary emphasized.

Separately explaining the Law on Special Economic Zones, the General Secretary said that Vietnam has advocated building a special economic zone since the 1990s of the last century. At that time, Mr. Vo Van Kiet was Prime Minister and went to survey Van Phong (Khanh Hoa) area for testing. Recognizing that this is a way to attract investment and is also a ""difficult, new, sensitive and important"" issue, the General Secretary said the steps are very cautious. ""The Resolution of the Central Committee and the directives clearly state how to be effective because it is related to national defense, security and social safety, how to promote strength at home and abroad while ensuring Sovereignty. That is the consistency. As for the specific design, each country is different, each region is different, ""- the General Secretary affirmed.

The Party General Secretary also further analyzed: When there are suggestions, the Party, State and National Assembly need to listen, absorb, and pass them when they are perfected. ""Where have we approved, leaving to have more time to work. From the afternoon of June 8 it was decided to stop, why did they still protest until June 10 and 11, proving that they have intentions""- General Secretary pointed out.

Talking more about the content of 99-year land lease, which caused a stir in public opinion, the General Secretary affirmed that ""it does not have to be handed over to country A, which country B can rent it freely, but depending on the specific project"".

According to the current law, the land lease term is regulated not to exceed 70 years. But, because this is a special zone, according to the original plan, to encourage investment, the regulation should not exceed 99 years. However, to be able to lease land with that term, it must go through many processes and be approved by the Prime Minister.


""Using this point to say that China in 99 years is losing its country, inciting protests to express patriotism, leading to anti-corruption and sabotage. The deep essence is to distort the truth and provoke. the people's genuine patriotism to plot other things, having the hands of saboteurs, not excluding foreign elements,"" the General Secretary pointed out and wanted voters to be very alert, calm, and confident. the leadership of the Party, State and Government.

The General Secretary added: ""It's all for the country, for the people, not for any other purpose, no one foolishly or naively assigns land to a foreign country for people to come here.""

The General Secretary also noted the vandalism of elements that existed before with the 2001 and 2004 incidents in the Central Highlands, and 2014 in Muong Nhe. Noting that taking advantage of protests to disrupt politics is very dangerous, the General Secretary also asked voters and people to soberly criticize and smash the destructive negativity.

Regarding the raised issues related to the Law on Cybersecurity, the General Secretary also said that there was agitation.

The General Secretary said: ""In the world, many countries have this law. In the era of the 4.0 technology revolution, there are many benefits, but on the other hand, it is very difficult to manage. From here, there are incitements, demonstrations, and troubles. , to overthrow the government. Therefore, we need this law to protect this regime. We can't say whatever we want to say. It's very beneficial, but it's very dangerous if we're not vigilant. There must be laws to protect cybersecurity, national security and citizens' rights.""

The General Secretary also very frankly shared that if there are internal defects, they should be corrected, not indulged or hidden, however, using them to provoke and oppose the regime will result in loss of the country and the regime.

""These two laws are very sensitive. The Law on Cybersecurity has been passed, the Law on Special Economic Zones will continue to be researched and perfected, if it is beneficial, it will be passed""- the General Secretary concluded."
"In fact, in Vietnam there is no ""expropriation"" at all, but only ""for the people""; Freedom of expression and freedom of information in our country are democratically and widely promoted. Accordingly, the State of Vietnam has promulgated the Press Law, the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Access to Information and other relevant laws and codes, clearly stipulating the freedom of the press, the right to freedom of expression on the Internet. citizen journalism; press organization and activities; rights and obligations of agencies, organizations and individuals participating in and related to press activities; State management of the press. Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam states: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, meetings, associations, and demonstrations. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. Or in Article 11 of the 2016 revised Press Law, it is clear that citizens have the right to: “Speak out on the situation of the country and the world; participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for organizations and individuals”.

 

Especially, in the face of the increasingly strong development of the scientific and technological revolution, the State of Vietnam has always paid attention to the development of the internet, which is an important tool to better ensure the right to freedom of speech. opinion, freedom of the press. According to statistics, currently our country is in the top 20 countries with the highest number of internet users in the world, with nearly 70% of users, higher than the world average (more than 51%). Through electronic information sites and social networks, people can freely express their opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts such as Facebook, YouTube, Viber, Zalo,…. The expression of each person's right to freedom of expression has never been easier and more contagious than it is now; People can contribute ideas to draft documents submitted to Party congresses, comment on draft laws, regimes and policies, etc. However, the State of Vietnam also resolutely punishes organizations and individuals who take advantage of this issue to commit acts of spreading bad news, distorting, smearing, raiding, forming factions against the Party and State. and the socialist system in our country.

 

Distorting the situation of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Vietnam is a very sophisticated and cunning trick that is always used by extremist organizations, individuals and political opportunities.

 

In the face of blatant misrepresentation of political opportunistic elements, hostile forces, party committees and authorities at all levels, it is necessary to do a good job of propaganda to raise people's awareness and responsibility in using the Internet, equip themselves with skills to self-screen information, foster the formation of positive and cultural habits of action and behavior in the online environment. Further strengthen the Party's leadership over press activities and ensure the right to information of all citizens before the law. Continue to study, firmly grasp the press law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press of each citizen. On that basis, the process of exercising their rights and obligations in the field of information, press and speech must comply with the law. At the same time, raise the spirit of revolutionary vigilance, identify and resolutely fight against false and hostile views that take advantage of freedom of speech and freedom of the press to distort and slander in the field of law. democracy and human rights in our country."	"Along with the development of technology, internet connectivity and the increasing rate of users of smart mobile devices, the digital financial services market is growing at a rapid rate in Vietnam. The Covid-19 pandemic occurred with the requirement of social distancing, increasing the development opportunities of digital services in general, including digital banking services in particular. Some trends in the development of digital banking services can be mentioned that are popular in the Vietnamese market today, such as: automatic banking services have been researched and implemented by many banks, such as Home Banking, Internet Banking. , Mobile Banking, e-wallets... The development of information technology with applications of artificial intelligence, Chatbot... has helped organizations providing financial and payment services to promote transaction support activities. , customer consultation 24/7; at the same time, integrate to create a digital ecosystem that spreads payment connection with public services, finance, telecommunications, electricity, transportation, healthcare... so that, on network-connected devices, customers can can use more utilities than face-to-face transactions. Currently, there are more than 100 financial technology enterprises (Fintech) operating, mainly in the fields of payment and personal finance, P2P peer-to-peer lending (directly connecting borrowers with lenders). on the internet via online apps) has worked quite effectively, helping to shorten the loan approval time from a few weeks at traditional banks to just a few hours. Up to now, the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) has granted a license to provide intermediary payment services to 43 organizations that are not banks. In general, the whole country currently has over 80,000 QR code payment points, 78 internet payment service providers, 49 mobile payment service providers, 30 commercial banks and 6 payment intermediary service providers coordinate to deploy [1].

Protecting financial consumers against the strong development of digital financial services in Vietnam today
The development of digital financial services has brought convenient experience opportunities for consumers.
According to statistics of the State Bank, in the period 2015-2020, the total number of payments via internet channels increased by 262.5%, the payment value increased by 353%; Mobile payments increased 1,000% in volume but up 3,000% in value. In the first 8 months of 2021, the total number of transactions via the inter-bank electronic payment system increased by 3.32% in quantity and 41.37% in value over the same period in 2020; payment via internet channel increased by 54.13% in quantity and 30.70% in value respectively over the same period in 2020, via mobile phone channel increased by 74.98% and 93.69% respectively. QR code channel increased by 66.81% and 133.12% respectively. Thus, mobile payments have far surpassed internet payments.

The development of digital financial services has brought convenient experience opportunities for consumers, but also created many risks that they have to face, such as:

(i) Risks of information security. Currently, information disclosure, theft, buying and selling of personal data are common in cyberspace. More and more subjects collect, analyze and process personal data for different purposes, but do not notify customers or allow illegal acts to occur.

(ii) Risks from fraud, online fraud. Taking advantage of network security holes, hackers attack the bank's data system through its partners; attack directly on the website to change the interface to extort money and get data; penetrate the system to execute money transfer orders in order to appropriate information and assets of the Bank and customers; setting up websites impersonating banks to defraud customers; create online loan applications that transform from black credit to perform illegal credit contracts. Attacks on networked devices of low-security digital finance consumers to seize assets.

(iii) Technology risks (risks due to technical problems and network problems). This is also a risk mentioned a lot when applying digital banking financial services because the more modern technology is, the more difficulties it will pose, leading to risks and losses that people cannot control. The state of wave loss, network congestion due to transmission line overload has affected the quality of digital banking services, such as delay in liquidity, financial loss. Although these risks and losses have only been recorded on a small and odd scale and scope, they are partly causing some consumers to panic and fear when using the service.

(iv) Risks on legal aspects. Some legal regulations are slow to adjust, not keeping up with the development of new technology, which has affected the application of high technology in digital banking. As a result, it may lead to legal risks in legal disputes of customers consuming digital financial services.

(v) Risks in customer authentication. Identifying the identity when a customer opens an online account is very likely to be risky, because the bank does not have enough proof of customer verification like the transaction method at the counter. While, verifying the customer's identity is a very good job important to reduce risk, reveal identity or conduct illegal transactions.

DIGITAL FINANCIAL CONSUMERS PROTECTION POLICY
Digital financial consumption activities usually have the presence of 3 participants in the digital banking space, including: NH, customers and associated partners of the bank; in which, all 3 subjects can become ""gateways"" for cybercriminals to attack. But, in any respect, the subject of risk is also a consumer of digital finance. An example is that, while banks pay special attention to ensuring network security, the counterparty does not attach great importance to this issue; and in many cases there is insufficient capacity and infrastructure for information security. In fact, there has been a case of NH being attacked only from promotional emails that they have hired a 3rd party to perform. If to bypass NH's security system, hackers must have a certain level, then the attack from NH service users is much simpler, with no new trick of hitting greed, lack of customer understanding. Many recent cases have shown that by enticing customers to log into the fake bank website and declare security information to receive gifts, receive money from abroad... Most recently, Techcombank discovered that fraudsters took advantage of the loan needs of people who lost their jobs and reduced incomes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, pretending to be bank employees offering loans through forms they invented themselves, such as liquidation. loan records. It can be seen that many customers are not aware that personal information is also an asset that needs to be protected. Because from the personal information, such as: identity card number, bank account number, phone number, or date of birth..., they are often easily left on social networks, through transactions Buying and selling online has become a guide for crooks to find scams.

While cybercriminals have many tricks to attack subjects participating in digital financial consumption activities with risks belonging to customers, financial consumer protection policies revealed a series of limitations and inadequacies, specifically:

First, there is also a ""gap"" in the legal framework that specifically regulates financial consumer protection. Currently, the legal bases that are applied to adjust to digital financial consumers are mainly: Law on Protection of Consumer Rights, passed by the National Assembly on November 17, 2010; a number of specialized laws and sub-law documents belong to laws, such as: Law on Credit Institutions; Law on Securities, Law on Insurance. In addition, all current regulations are only suitable for traditional transactions and services, without taking into account some new methods, especially the development of the digital economy and the Industrial Revolution. Industry 4.0. Along with that, at present, Vietnam does not have a specialized statutory agency responsible for consumer protection in the financial sector; The coordination between specialized agencies related to digital finance is also inadequate, leading to inadequate management and investment of necessary resources in the protection of digital financial consumers. . This indicates that financial consumers are not considered vulnerable; The issue of protecting digital financial consumers in the context of digital economy transformation is still incomplete in terms of legislation and implementation monitoring mechanism.

Second, the handling of complaints about the security of financial consumer information is not very effective. According to the results of a survey of 540 random number financial consumers in Hanoi about the need to provide legal advice to customers in personal information security incidents of the Young Research Group of the Student Banks, up to 97% of customers do not complain about things they are not satisfied with, because they are afraid of collisions or take time for administrative procedures to resolve complaints. Most of the time, the handling of disputes related to banking financial activities according to the provisions of financial contracts is handled in the final agency which is the court, the proceedings are lengthy and expensive [4]. . In addition, although Vietnamese law has quite strict sanctions against those who illegally collect and use personal information of consumers, the maximum penalty is up to 7 years in prison. , but almost only applied when there is great damage, in fact, very few cases in this area are handled.

Third, investment costs for customer information security are not satisfactory. To ensure smooth, safe and accurate digital banking services, banks have been constantly investing in information safety and security. A survey by the Vietnam Cyber ​​Emergency Response Center in 2020 shows that 100% of credit institutions invest in security and security solutions from basic to advanced, such as firewalls, systems. intrusion detection; multi-factor authentication anti-virus system; anti-spam system; data filtering system; digital signature technology KPI; biometric authentication... However, investment costs for village safety In general, information still accounts for a small proportion (less than 10%) of the total investment capital for developing digital banking products and services.

SOME SOLUTIONS TO PROTECT FINANCIAL CONSUMERS IN THE DIGITAL ECONOMY IN VIETNAM TODAY
No matter how much technology develops, it will allow digital banking financial services to develop there and with that, cybercriminals also take advantage of the advancement of technology to attack the digital banking system, so no stop increasing risks for digital financial consumers. In order to protect digital financial consumers in Vietnam in the context of the deepening and deepening impacts of integration and the 4.0 Revolution, according to the authors, it is necessary to effectively and synchronously implement the following solutions:

First, establish a legal framework for financial consumer protection. The regulatory framework should be directed to all stakeholders (financial consumers, financial consumer protection organizations, agencies directly responsible for financial consumer protection, etc.) That is the basis for regulating the conduct of each party, helping to protect the interests of financial consumers. Accordingly, forming a legal framework to protect financial consumers is: building a legal corridor on data protection, protecting user data privacy in order to create a secure digital transaction environment, safety, protect consumers, promote public trust in performing digital transactions and using digital services. Along with that, it is necessary to complete the Decree on electronic identification and authentication in order to further facilitate electronic transactions and digital services, thereby enhancing support for digital economy activities. At the same time, speed up the research and development of the Law on Electronic Transactions to replace or amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Transactions 2005 to create a legal basis for ministries and branches to complete relevant legal provisions. related, help promote digitalization, digital application, create a favorable transaction environment for people and businesses through digital channels, electronic methods.

Second, establish a specialized agency to monitor the compliance of financial institutions in carrying out their responsibility to protect financial consumers. This body must have certain authority, operate objectively and independently; has sufficient power, resources and capacity in inspection, supervision and is responsible for proposing policies and legal frameworks on financial consumer protection. In parallel, a financial consumer association should be established to act as a representative to protect the interests of financial consumers when their interests are violated; At the same time, it is an information channel providing financial knowledge and warning of cyber security risks to financial consumers to raise awareness and proactively prevent.

Third, improve the responsibility of banks and financial service providers in protecting financial consumers. This requires investment in a total solution from the development of hardware technical infrastructure to security software solutions and a team of security experts, financial professionals, and digital banks. Specific solutions include:

- Pay attention to network security management: Banks and financial institutions need to pay attention to building and upgrading a high-level security and privacy system. Synchronously deploying solutions to protect, prevent and prevent data leakage and leakage on the entire information system; strengthen inspection and supervision of the entire process and stages with potential risks of information security. Develop processes, scenarios and organize periodic drills to respond to incidents and risks of information insecurity in order to improve capacity to prevent and reduce negative impacts and consequences of attacks. public network…

- Developing a strategy for human resource development in the Finance - Banking sector in the digital economy; strengthening and improving the quality of high-tech human resource training is implemented throughout the financial system, contributing to guiding and supporting digital banking consumers.

Fourth, build a self-protection mechanism for financial consumers. Strengthen financial education, raise public awareness and understanding of financial products and services, thereby reducing the risk of financial loss during service use, and help people able to make informed financial decisions. At the same time, promote communication activities, provide information, warn financial consumers against the tricks of cybercriminals to attack on unsafe transactions of financial consumers. main number. In addition, consumers must actively prevent fraud and avoid being taken advantage of by fraudsters: do not provide confidential information for digital banking services, protect and change passwords regularly. access secure digital banking services according to safety principles; do not visit untrusted websites, or enter any links that request to provide or update personal information and digital banking service information; Register to use the active message service to receive notifications of changes related to your personal account"
"Resolution of the 4th Central Committee (term XII) on “Strengthening Party building and rectification; preventing and repelling the deterioration of political ideology, morality, lifestyle, internal ""self-evolution"" and ""self-transformation"" expressions have warned the phenomenon: ""Abusing and using the media, communication and social networks to slander, smear, lower the prestige and leadership role of the Party, cause internal division and suspicion among cadres, party members and the people"". The most obvious is the group ""Clean Newspaper"" led by Truong Chau Huu Danh and a number of subjects who have taken advantage of democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals who have been arrested. and recently prosecuted. In particular, while our whole country is making efforts to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic, there are people who take advantage of the situation to propagate false information, spread unverified information, and confuse public opinion. These subjects fabricated a false picture of the epidemic situation in Vietnam, spread fake news, inaccurate information, slandered the armed forces in order to create fear in the community, cause suspicion and conflict. conflict between the Party, State and Army and the people….

Most recently, a number of provinces and cities implemented Directive 16 on social distancing, requiring people to go out on the street to have a travel permit and agencies and units must be responsible for compiling a list of employees. of the unit that needs to be circulated on the road, accompanied by a work assignment plan, production and business plan that meets the requirements and regulations on epidemic prevention and control, etc., many people are inherently considered ""people of the public"" them"" have posted sarcastic images and articles, while they themselves admit that if they do not do social distancing well, the epidemic prevention and control will be difficult to achieve the desired effect. What is even more sad is that this information is still shared by many cadres and party members on social networks.

One of the issues mentioned by the Resolution of the 13th National Party Congress in the country's development orientation for the period 2021 - 2030 affirms the requirement to maintain cyber security, build an orderly society, In order to do well on this issue, one of the main focuses is to actively prevent and fight strongly against the abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace. This responsibility belongs not only to relevant functional agencies but also to the common tasks of Party committees at all levels and each cadre and party member.

First of all, Party committees at all levels must thoroughly grasp and well implement Directive No. 28-CT/TU dated September 16, 2013 of the Secretariat (term XI) on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security"". ""; Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW dated January 22, 2018 of the Politburo (term XII) on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation, fighting against wrong and hostile views in the current situation."" new"". Continue to propagate and well implement the Law on Press, the Law on Access to Information, the Law on Cybersecurity; at the same time, functional agencies need to regularly monitor, survey, evaluate, promptly adjust, supplement and perfect the legal system to help manage effectively and in accordance with the rules governing behavior. in social and community activities, while keeping up with the development of social networks; proactively grasp the situation, provide accurate and timely information to media agencies, officials and party members to counter false claims, especially in the context of complicated developments of the Covid-19 epidemic such as: Currently.

Along with that, each cadre and party member should regularly raise their sense of responsibility when using social networks and the internet; uphold the spirit of vigilance against unorthodox information, sensitive information; constantly learning and practicing to improve self-analysis and information screening capabilities, actively participating in refuting bad and toxic information in the network environment. Party committees, cadres and party members also need to include issues of speech discipline and the implementation of the Code of Conduct on social networks into regular activities of the cell.

It is very necessary to fight to prevent and strictly handle the abuse of freedom of speech to write and distort with bad intentions on the internet and social networks. Cadres and party members who are well aware and act correctly will effectively contribute to the prevention of ""self-evolution"" and ""self-transformation"" internally, ensuring network security, protecting the unity and consensus. general consensus in public opinion."	
"Right from its inception (first appeared in 1997, boomed in 2006 when Facebook was born), social networks have been likened to a ""public square"", where everyone can freely exchange, information sharing, expression of views and opinions. Because, social network is an online platform that can operate on all information technology devices, such as desktop computers, laptops, tablets, smartphones with print connection- silk. Social networks allow users to create, share stories, articles, personal ideas, post photos, video clips, and announce activities and events online or in the real world, .. . which appears to be uncensored.

But since its inception, social networks have almost been identified as ""virtual worlds"", so developments in cyberspace have changed from being ""harmless"", freely expressing opinions. Political opinion has been the source of many incalculable harms, even upsetting and upsetting an entire polity and nation. That is the reason why the state has to adjust management measures for suppliers and users (individuals, organizations). That leads to the fact that until now, all social networking platforms have their own rules about what content is not allowed to be posted.

 



The promulgation of the Code of Conduct on social networks is towards common standards, respecting the law, so that all users of social networks can improve their responsibilities and avoid legal violations _Source: toquoc.vn

 

Of course, each country has its own regulation with its own law, on the basis of international law, in order to prevent content that is harmful, malicious, inciting hatred, infringing upon the interests of other countries. individuals and communities, threatening social security and national security. At the end of April 2021, the European Parliament passed a measure forcing social media platforms to quickly remove or block access to online content with the meaning of ""terrorism"". The 27 countries in the European Union (EU) recently discussed tough measures in managing social media channels and online statements in the bloc's countries, with the aim of shaping the online environment. safe, open, innovative and trustworthy society.

As with the whole EU, each member country also has more specific and detailed social network management measures. As Germany has issued the NetzDG Code (Law on improving law enforcement in social networks), effective from October 1, 2017 and officially applied from August 1, 2018. The NetzDG Code contains provisions that force social media companies to quickly remove ""clearly illegal"" content, such as ""hate speech, defamation"" and ""fake news."" if you do not want to face large fines. Or like France, it also sets out strict limits and sanctions for abuses of freedom of speech that affect the legitimate rights and interests of others, including the protection of human dignity, against slander, slander; against racial and religious discrimination; against inciting violence, causing hatred; against invasion of privacy; prohibiting the publication of a number of documents related to national security... Specific provisions are specified in the Law on Freedom of the Press, the Civil Code, and the Criminal Law. South Asian countries, such as India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, etc., also promulgate laws related to the use of ""hate speech"" and the words, acts of ethnic division, causing social conflict.

In that general context, Vietnam cannot stand aside, especially when we integrate more and more deeply with the world. Therefore, the promulgation of legal documents and ""soft"" regulations to manage and regulate social network participants is natural and necessary. In it, it is worth noting that the activities of social network users with a green tick attached, who have great influence, even lead the online community.

Green ticks and influence

Green ticks on social networks, especially Facebook, Tiktok, Instagram, ... show the level of the owner of the social network account. There are different approaches to the content and interpretation, but they all have a common point that is easy to understand, the common thing is that the green tick is a sign that the account is real, has many followers, has coverage. wide and has great influence on the online community. That is, if a social networking site has a green tick, its owner is a celebrity, respected, admired, and attractive to the public. In short, it's the social media influencers.

 



Green ticks on social networks show the level of social media account owners_Source: shutterstock.com
 


In English, influencers are called Influencers, to refer to people who have influence on the community, able to influence the thinking and behavior of a group of people, even a large community. In fact, the influencers on social networks are KOLs (abbreviation of the English words Key Opinion Leader). KOLs can be individuals or organizationsc are influential in their fields and professions, such as politicians, experts, entrepreneurs, writers, artists, sports stars... Their influence is the impact on the community by what is posted on the social networking site they own (can hire a team of experts to manage and operate). Although social media is almost a 'virtual world', the effects of celebrities are very real. For example, when giving a status line, posting a photo or video clip, etc. on a personal page or Fanpage (1), the written information, images, sounds, and video clips will be affected. influence readers, viewers, listeners to make them receive, analyze, verify, believe and follow. For social network account holders with a green check, they are almost assumed to be reputable, so what they post is considered correct, accurate, and undisputed, so the public easily believes it. But that's not always the case!

In fact, many artists, entrepreneurs, and people with a green check have exceeded the limit when using social networks and have been reminded, disciplined, and even dismissed. There are many examples of virtual networks causing real disasters, which are really valuable lessons for many people, especially those with influence in cyberspace. The content of information, language, images that are excessive, deviating from standards when ""unmasking"", denouncing, lashing out, degrading, disparaging others has to be stopped, or adjusted. To be fair, it is clear that the denunciation of limitations, errors and violations of the law by other individuals and organizations is encouraging and worthy of praise. However, the public - the crime must be clear. It is impossible that when the community has recognized, thanked, and applauded, one can be ""free"" in an unethical way, regardless of standards, ethics, and laws.

Not only stopping in Vietnam, many times some Vietnamese citizens also have condemnable behavior on social networks towards individuals and international issues that negatively affect the image of the country and people. Vietnamese. Please give a recent example. After the Vietnam national football team lost to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in the 2022 World Cup qualifier on June 16, 2021, many Vietnamese social media users were ""outraged"". Aggressively, fiercely ""attacked"" the Facebook account of the referee to catch the Iraqi match Ali Sabah (Ali Sabah Adday Al-Qaysi). Foreign media reported, world social network users ridiculed and condemned. Referee Ali Sabbath had to temporarily lock his Facebook account, and at the same time asked for help: “I am offended by the comments of Vietnamese fans. Even though I blew the penalty according to the law, they still cursed and insulted me, they even asked to kill me."" Although these are just individuals, not famous for their green ticks, but their impulsive actions, a dua ""crowd syndrome"", objectionable, condemnable, have ugly the image of the national football team. Vietnamese people are being highly respected and respected; negatively affect the image of the people and country of Vietnam in the eyes of international friends.

You can't go overboard and deviate from the standard and break the law

It is alarming that the above examples are only recent, attracting strong attention in the online community and society, not exclusively in cyberspace. The status of social network users, especially those with green credits, taking full advantage of the features, effects, and pervasiveness of social networks, with a large number of followers to post new information. Unverified information, using deviant and ugly words to smear and insult the honor and dignity of others is happening more and more, with a level of complexity, sophistication and sophisticated and thorough investment. both in terms of equipment and content posted or streamed. Overdoing it on the virtual network has very unfortunate consequences in real life. It is clearly a violation of the law, which needs to be handled promptly and seriously. Even, not only are the administrative violations handled (although the amount of fines is nothing compared to what they earn from malicious information intentionally posted and distributed) but also need measures. stronger hand, from both the state management agency, and the network operator, as well as the condemnation and boycott of the community.

On May 28, 2021, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued Official Letter No. 1800/BTTTT-PTTH&TTĐT “On strengthening the management and handling of infringing information on social networks”. The official letter clearly states the development of social networks in recent years, especially two foreign social networks, Facebook and Youtube, with ""both negative and positive impacts on social life"". , and at the same time affirmed the strengthening of management to limit the negative impacts of social networks, and promptly handle violations of users. The official dispatch clearly states: ""From 2017 to now, the Ministry has directed the local Department of Information and Communications to handle many cases of violations by YouTube and Facebook users of social networks, of which notably: Youtube Hoang Anh-Timmy in Ho Chi Minh City, Hung vlog channel, Hung troll in Bac Giang, Tho Nguyen channel in Binh Duong. At the same time,The ministry has also asked Google to close many other YouTube channels of domestic users with illegal content.

 



Police of Bac Me district, Ha Giang province issued a decision to sanction administrative violations against those who misinformed about the COVID-19 epidemic in Bac Me district on social networks _Photo: VNA

But, as mentioned above, the handling of violations is still not enough to deter and warn. Many subjects because of lack of understanding, trend-following, and blind greed still continue to post illegal content, which mainly offends the honor and dignity of organizations and individuals. other personnel; use offensive language, violate fine customs and traditions; spreading fake news, false news; advertising, providing services illegally; ... causing irritation in public opinion, affecting social order and safety. Therefore, it is necessary to correct deviant and illegal actions, strengthen management, and strictly handle violators to avoid causing negative impacts on public opinion. In addition, there are ""soft"" regulations that are popular, propagate and guide people to use social networks in a healthy and useful way.

On June 17, 2021, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued Decision No. 874/QD-BTTTT “On the promulgation of the Code of Conduct on social networks” (effective from June 17), with detailed and clear rules. The scope and subjects of application of the Code include 3 groups of subjects: state agencies, cadres, civil servants, public employees and employees in state agencies using social networks; other organizations and individuals using social networks; social network service provider in Vietnam. The Ministry also issued four general codes of conduct including: 1- The Code of respecting and complying with Vietnamese laws, respecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; 2- Healthy Rules (behavior and behavior on social networks in accordance with the moral values, culture and fine traditions of the Vietnamese nation); 3- Code of Information Safety and Confidentiality (compliance with regulations and guidelines on information safety and security protection; and 4- Responsibility Code (responsibility for acts and conduct on the social networks, and coordinate with functional agencies to handle acts and information content that violate the law).

It can be affirmed that the issuance of the Code of Conduct on social networks is very timely, necessary, has a positive meaning, towards common standards, respects the law, in order to create ""armor set"" ""so that all users of social networks can increase their responsibility and can avoid pitfalls, or violations of the law. The Code is not mandatory or has a sanctioning function, but it does encourage people to behave properly online, consciously change, adjust behavior and ethics when participating in the ""virtual world"". to contribute to building a safe and healthy network environment.

In fact, there have been many legal regulations to manage the network environment, especially the Law on Cybersecurity (issued on June 12, 2018, effective from January 1, 2019), but there are only measures sanctions strong enough to handle strictly, promptly, and enough deterrent to prevent violations, especially those who repeatedly repeat offenders. That helps each citizen when communicating and acting on the ""virtual network"" can clearly recognize their responsibilities, rights and limitations to properly and well comply with the provisions of the law. Of course, once reality ""goes ahead"", there are things that the law has not adjusted in time, the addition and completion of legal documents, ""soft"" regulations to strictly manage Strictly, creating good conditions for healthy and sustainable development is something that needs to be identified and implemented soon. Thus, the right to freedom of speech, freedom to express opinions, views and attitudes of each citizen as stipulated by the Constitution and laws of Vietnam does not go too far leading to blasphemy, blasphemy, and violations of law. breaking the law, causing negative impacts on social security, fine customs and traditions, and on the healthy development of the country. That way, those who use social networks, especially those with a green check, will not be dazzled, but do illegal things, implicitly offending health, honor, slander, humiliate other citizens, against progressive moral values ​​and social justice."	
"Freedom of speech is a basic human right, but it must always be limited within the framework of the law. Article 19 of the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: “The exercise of the right to freedom of expression may be subject to certain limitations and these should be provided for by law, in order to : a) Respect the rights or reputation of others; b) Protect national security or public order, health or morals of society”. Thus, freedom of speech is not absolute freedom. Under certain circumstances, freedom of expression may conflict with other legitimate values ​​or rights.

Especially, in the context of the explosion of the internet and social networks, information becomes more complex and difficult to control. Through electronic information sites and social networks, users can freely express opinions, views, post or spread any information through their personal accounts without incurring any liability. which limit. Expressing one's freedom of speech has never been so easy and so contagious. But this itself also brings risks when this right is abused, especially when those who post information on cyberspace have wrong views, extreme attitudes, inadequate legal awareness...

Looking at the law enforcement practices of many countries around the world, it can be seen that there is no such thing as absolute freedom of speech. Each country, depending on specific conditions and contexts, imposes certain limits on the exercise of free speech by its citizens. In the United States, the limits of freedom of expression are shown mainly in the case law of the courts, especially the US Supreme Court, which allows the government to prevent and punish speech of a pornographic nature. , obscene, defamatory, offensive and aggressive, without being considered unconstitutional.

In France, the law on freedom of speech sets forth strict limits and sanctions to punish abuses of the right to freedom of expression that affect the legitimate rights and interests of others, including the protection of human dignity, against slander and libel; against racial and religious discrimination; against inciting violence and hatred (Law on Freedom of the Press, 1881); against invasion of privacy (Civil Code); Prohibit the publication of certain documents related to national security (Criminal Law). Expressing personal views on the internet is also governed by the Press Freedom Law.

The European Union (EU) has issued a Code of Conduct on the internet with the commitment to action of the world's four largest online businesses including Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Microsoft. These moves aim to ""ensure the people's right to true freedom of expression and create the basis for building a truly democratic and civilized society"".

Most recently, in the midst of a ""storm"" of fake news about the COVID-19 epidemic, a series of countries around the world have implemented many sanctions, from warnings, fines to jailing those who spread false rumors. true. In China, the act of spreading false information about the epidemic is punishable by fines, public surveillance or imprisonment from 3 to 7 years if causing serious consequences. In South Korea, President Moon Jae-in declared spreading fabricated information about the epidemic a ""serious offense"". Meanwhile, in Malaysia, the Government has arrested 6 people for posting false information about the Corona virus. Iranian police also arrested a person for posting a fake video, announcing a hospitalized COVID-19 patient on social networks. In the UK, a ""misinformation control unit"" has been set up to conduct the identification of COVID-19 fake news and liaise with media businesses to remove it.

The fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace in Vietnam today

Freedom in general and freedom of speech in particular need to be understood as freedom within the framework of the law. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1953 European Convention on Human Rights, and the 1966 Covenant on Civil and Political Rights all affirm the right to freedom of expression, but also emphasize freedom of speech as freedom. within the limits of morality and law, mainly aimed at protecting the dignity and honor (private life) of others, protecting business secrets, preventing discrimination, discrimination, and inciting violence force, war, resisting criticism, criticizing the government, especially if they are calls for riots, threatening public order and national security. Therefore, each country can consider its actual situation to concretize the exercise of citizens' right to freedom of expression.

Obviously, in any political regime there can be no absolute freedom of speech, countries strictly handle acts of abusing freedom of speech; promoting freedom of speech must be for the common good, not the absolutization of individual freedom, not taking advantage of freedom of speech to write, speak, or distort with bad intentions, regardless of morality and law. France.

In Vietnam, the Party and State always respect and guarantee human rights, including the right to freedom of expression. of citizens. Freedom of speech is considered a constitutional right right in the first Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1946: “Vietnamese citizens have the following rights: freedom of speech, freedom of publication, freedom of organization and assembly, freedom of belief, freedom of residence and movement in the country and abroad” (Article 10). The 2013 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam continues to affirm: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and demonstration. The exercise of these rights is provided for by law” (Article 25). Besides, we also have the Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information 2016. Our country's legal framework on basic freedom of expression is adequate, synchronous and compatible with international law on human rights. Like other countries in the world, Vietnam has regulations to limit and prevent acts of abusing freedom of speech, infringing upon national interests, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , citizen.

Aware of the importance, benefits and dangers of the internet and social networks, our Party and State have adopted appropriate guidelines and policies to develop the internet and social networks; at the same time protect network security and prevent and fight against taking advantage of the internet and social networks to distort, oppose the government, and infringe on the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. Among them are Directive No. 28-CT/TW, dated September 16, 2013, of the Secretariat of the XI term, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security""; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP, dated July 15, 2013, of the Government, on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”; Directive No. 15/CT-TTg, dated June 17, 2014, of the Prime Minister, on ""Strengthening the work of ensuring network information security and safety in the new situation"". The document of the 12th Party Congress clearly states: ""Focusing on the management of various types of information on the internet to orient the people's ideology and aesthetics, especially youth and teenagers"". In addition, during the implementation of Resolution No. 35-NQ/TW, dated January 22, 2018, of the Politburo, on ""Strengthening the protection of the Party's ideological foundation, and fighting against false views. contrary, hostile in the new situation"", the Central Propaganda Department has strengthened the direction of the work of fighting and countering false information and claims, conspiracy, and activities taking advantage of the internet and social networks to fight back. destroy the Party and the State. The Ministry of National Defense and the Ministry of Public Security proactively detect, fight, prevent and strictly handle those who take advantage of the internet and social networks to violate the law. The Cyber ​​Command (Ministry of Defense) was established under Decision No. 1198/QD-TTg, dated August 15, 2017, by the Prime Minister, playing a pivotal role in ensuring security. , national cyber security, fight against high-tech crime and ""peaceful evolution"" in cyberspace. The Press Law 2016, the Law on Access to Information in 2016 and the Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, both clearly stipulate acts such as posting and spreading false information, distorting, defaming, denying the government; fabricating, causing confusion among the people; distort history; denying revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero; Untrue information, slander, insult to the reputation of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals ... are handled by law.

Reactionary and hostile forces at home and abroad have been taking advantage of freedom of speech to distort and destroy our Party and State, smear and slander the government, incite and panic among the people. , threatening national security and social order and safety. For example, regarding the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity, many websites and reactionary elements have distorted and distorted information, claiming that this law ""especially infringes on private space"", violate freedom of speech, the press, the internet"". Some people do not have enough information, lack of understanding, so they easily believe and make opposing statements, hindering the implementation of the Law. The Dong Tam incident on January 9, 2020 caused shock and division in the community because of too many conflicting news streams on social networks. Enemy forces also take this opportunity to propagate against the regime...

The phenomenon of spreading fake and false information online also causes many consequences. For example, while the State is making efforts to prevent, control and repel the COVID-19 epidemic, there are people who take advantage of the epidemic situation to propagate false information, distort the Party's policies and guidelines, State policies cause confusion in public opinion. They fabricated a false picture of the epidemic situation in Vietnam, spread fake news, made up stories about the number of infected people, the number of deaths, and announced that the rate of disease spread was many times higher than that of the Government. government announcements, creating fear in the community, disturbing social life, causing doubts and conflicts between the people, the Party and the State. Through unfounded information, hostile forces deliberately ignored the important results we have achieved, lowering the Party's leadership role and the State's management capacity.In addition, many subjects also intentionally spread false information about the epidemic situation in order to gain illegal benefits. main. It is negative information that makes people afraid, rush to buy masks, hoard food, leading to the situation of ""picking up"" goods, ""blowing"" prices... Such acts cannot be used ""freely"". speech” to defend.

When we prevent the above misinformation and misinformation, hostile forces claim that this is ""a form of information censorship"", ""violating the right to freedom of speech"". The truth is, the above prevention is necessary, in accordance with the law, all countries in the world must do it. After the Ministry of Information and Communications promoted exchange and working activities with representatives of Facebook, Google proposed to prevent, process and remove information that violates Vietnamese law on social networks, thousands of videos, including videos with inciting content to destroy the Party and State, have been removed from Youtube; Thousands of links with illegal content, hundreds of fake accounts, propaganda against the Party and State have also been blocked by Facebook...

To fight against abuse of freedom of expression in cyberspace, it is necessary to implement synchronously the following solutions:

Firstly, education and propaganda to raise the responsibility of network users and the spirit of vigilance against rumors. Raising awareness and self-screening capacity of people and communities, forming positive behavior habits in the online environment. This is a key and long-term solution for each citizen to become an effective information filter for themselves and the community.

Secondly, regularly monitoring, surveying, evaluating, promptly adjusting, supplementing and perfecting the legal system, mechanisms and policies to help effective management while being consistent with the rules governing administrative culture in social and community activities, while keeping up with the development of social networks.

Third, it is necessary to strengthen technical measures. Specifically, adequate investment in agencies responsible for ensuring national cyber security and safety. Recruit and train a team of experts who are good at information technology, capable of effectively implementing technical and professional measures. At the same time, to encourage the development of Vietnam's social network; coordinate with major foreign social network service providers, such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, Youtube to promptly prevent, handle and eliminate risks affecting social safety and national security. family./"	
"The Law on Cybersecurity is a systematization, centralization and legalization of the previous regulations on network security management in Vietnam. The law does not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. The Law is also consistent with the Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties to which Vietnam is a member.

According to the international index, Vietnam ranked 100th in the world and ranked last in the ASEAN region in terms of cybersecurity. The low level of cybersecurity led to about 15,000 cyber attacks in Vietnam in 2017, causing about VND 12,300 billion in damage. In the first 5 months of 2018, the authorities recorded 4,035 incidents of cyber attacks in Vietnam. Insecurity vulnerabilities increase by more than 300% per year, putting Vietnam at many risks when entering the industrial revolution 4.0.

Building the Law on Cybersecurity is right

In such a context, Vietnam's formulation of the Law on Cybersecurity is absolutely right and necessary to prevent and be ready to prevent threats to cybersecurity and protect its sovereignty, interests and security. national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. Vietnamese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Le Thi Thu Hang affirmed: Cybersecurity is a very important issue affecting national security. In recent years, cybersecurity has become a special concern of many countries and international and regional organizations. Attacks targeting the network environment develop rapidly in both form and scale, cross-border in nature, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of countries. Meanwhile, efforts to improve security in the network environment still face many difficulties, especially due to the lack of legal institutions and capacity to ensure network security. Therefore, the development of the Law on Cybersecurity is absolutely necessary in the current context.

Protecting citizens' legitimate rights and interests

The Law on Cybersecurity is a systematization, centralization and legalization of the previous regulations on network security management in Vietnam. The Law on Cybersecurity regulates relationships in cyberspace in order to protect national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan, in contact with voters after the 5th session, the XIV National Assembly, clearly confirmed this: Scope of regulation, this law has 3 main groups, the first is national security, The second is social order and safety and the legitimate interests of organizations and individuals, which means that if we lean too much on national security, ensuring social order and safety, we will violate individual freedoms. in accessing information or the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises when using information? All of these are calculated to ensure that they do not affect personal freedom. And this law prevents and fights against illegal acts in cyberspace, but if using normal cyberspace, no one will cause difficulties. That is, legitimate activities will be protected.

The Law on Cybersecurity protects the legitimate rights and interests of citizens - photo 1

Illustration (VNA)

The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain any provisions restricting citizens' right to freedom of speech and press freedom. The Law concretizes and lists in quite detail the prohibited acts due to the violation of the law when exercising the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press of citizens because these acts have been prescribed as acts of violation of the law. offenses in the Penal Code. Regarding this, Mr. Vo Van Thuong, Politburo member, Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Head of the Central Committee for Propaganda and Education, when meeting with voters in Dong Nai province, emphasized: It must be affirmed that the law on Cybersecurity is complete. there is absolutely no violation of citizens' right to freedom of speech, the right to express opinions and opinions. On the contrary, it also creates conditions for the exercise of this right in accordance with the provisions of law. Everyone has the right to express themselves, but we must follow the law, not that we speak freely and then do whatever we want. There are legal provisions to regulate human behavior in the relationship between citizens and citizens, between citizens and society, and between citizens and the State.

In accordance with the Constitution and not hindering the implementation of international treaties

The Cybersecurity Law is not intended to deter foreign investors. On the contrary, it is intended to make cyber activities healthier. The fact that the law establishes strict regulations on cyberspace for businesses operating in the cyber sector helps foreign businesses to consider more carefully when participating in cyber business activities in Vietnam. The formulation of this Law is also consistent with the Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties to which Vietnam is a contracting party."	
"The international legal and political basis of the Cybersecurity Law is the right of people to self-determination, this right is recognized in the United Nations Charter in 1945 and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966. Vietnam joined in 1982). Recalling the right of people to self-determination to see that the Law on Cybersecurity is fully compatible with international human rights law, without harming national interests; is the legal basis to protect national interests in the digital age. That is to protect Vietnam's electronic space and digital resources; At the same time, it is also the basis for the protection and guarantee of human rights.

Law on Cybersecurity, including 7 chapters and 43 articles. The principles of network security protection are: 1. Complying with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; 2. Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, under the unified management of the State, etc. 3. Closely combine the task of protecting network security... ensuring human rights, citizens' rights, creating conditions for organizations and individuals operating in cyberspace, etc. (Article 4).

The Cybersecurity Law does not ""invade privacy, freedom of expression and internet use rights"". Illustration.

The law only applies sanctions to the use of cyberspace to commit the following acts: 1. Against the State; 2. Infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. These are: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; (2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, etc. (3) False information causes confusion among the people, causing damage to economic activities. - society, etc., infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; (4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; sabotage the nation's fine customs and traditions, etc. (5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes,... (6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe on sovereignty , interests, national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals or for self-seeking purposes (Article 8).

Looking back at the current legal system of Vietnam, it can be said that the Law on Cybersecurity is designed in sync with the 2013 Constitution and other legal documents, such as: Law on Press (2016); Law on Access to Information (2016) and Government Decree on management, provision and use of internet services and network information, etc. For human rights, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely consistent with the International Conventions on Human Rights in general, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966) in particular.

In the world today, there are 18 member countries of the WTO (including: the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France, ...) have mandatory regulations for online businesses. must store the data within its territory. However, for our nation, the protection and assurance of national security in cyberspace is always a top priority.

In terms of human rights, rights and interests of individuals, organizations and businesses, the Law on Cybersecurity does not have any restrictions or violations against the legitimate rights and interests of these subjects. On the contrary, the Law on Cybersecurity is an effective legal tool to protect legitimate rights and interests so that people and businesses can get rid of information ""pollution"", such as ensuring air, drinking water and information security. clean food for human health."	
"However, in recent times, hostile and reactionary forces have deliberately distorted and distorted the truth about the exercise of civil and political rights in general and the right to access information in particular in Vietnam. On some websites with a lack of goodwill, there are people who think that Vietnam ""strangles"", ""hidden"" information; ""obstructing people's rights to freedom of expression, opinion and speech""... Even on the RFA website, it is vaguely argued that: ""hiding information is the principle of the Government of Vietnam. .. "".

It should be affirmed immediately that the above tone is a baseless fabrication, blatantly distorting the guarantee of civil and political rights in general and the right to information in Vietnam in particular. That action revealed the intentions and political motives that were not pure for Vietnam. The fact that guarantees people's right to information in Vietnam has completely refuted these false claims.


Illustration / Tuyen Giao.vn
 
The consistent policy of the Party and State of Vietnam is to encourage and create all favorable conditions for people to be informed; exploit and use the internet to access information to serve the goals of socio-economic development, support administrative reform, improve the quality of life and exercise basic freedoms of the people. people. In that spirit, Vietnam has achieved many achievements in ensuring the people's right to information. These achievements are first reflected in the construction and improvement of the legal system. The National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has revised and promulgated many new legal documents to better ensure the people's right to information, including laws and decrees such as the Press Law 2016; Law on Access to Information 2016; Law on Cybersecurity 2018; Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP on “Management, provision and use of internet services and online information”… All of these legal documents comply with the socialist rule of law principle. , in accordance with the 2013 Constitution, not only ensures the right to receive information, but also ensures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency in protecting State secrets, preventing the disclosure and leakage of information secrets.

Decree No. 72/2013/ND-CP defines the policy of the Party and State of Vietnam as creating favorable conditions for economic development, creating the best conditions for people in difficult areas to use Internet services and information on the Internet in search and access to information. In the face of the strong development of the internet and electronic networks, protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace is an important and inevitable task. The Law on Cybersecurity defines the rule of law of our State, while respecting and ensuring human rights, including the right to access information. For websites operating in Vietnam, the Law on Cybersecurity also has very clear and specific regulations. Ensuring information security in cyberspace in accordance with the Law on Cybersecurity based on international practices does not impede people's right to information and does not hinder the operation of network enterprises deploying services in Vietnam. Male. This is clearly demonstrated in the United Nations Human Rights Council's National Report on the protection and promotion of human rights under the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) cycle III of the United Nations Human Rights Council, published at a workshop held by the United Nations. December 3, 2018. Accordingly, Vietnam is one of the countries with the fastest internet growth in the world, with over 50 million internet users...

The Government of Vietnam has implemented a system to receive feedbacks and petitions from people and businesses through the Government Portal, and annually develops and publicly publishes the PAR Index of Public Administration Reforms. State administrative agencies and the People's Satisfaction Index with the service of State administrative agencies. In the context of the Industrial Revolution 4.0, the Government of Vietnam has established a National Committee, speeding up the construction of ""e-Government""; portals of State agencies, in order to provide online public services, for officials, agencies and organizations to have direct dialogue with the people; so that people through the internet can express their thoughts and aspirations and send their opinions to the Party and government in order to improve the efficiency of receiving and reflecting information and recommendations of the people. In fact, the number of people using the internet and social networks to express their opinions, organize discussion forums, criticize the Party and State's guidelines and policies, and send comments and recommendations to the authorities. in Vietnam is increasing. Much information from MXH has been checked, verified and handled in a timely manner by relevant authorities and authorities at all levels.

In order to ensure the people's right to receive information, our Party and State have adopted many policies, including the development of press and communication. In order to enhance the publicity and transparency of information, the Prime Minister has promulgated the Regulation on the mechanism for speaking and providing information to the press of ministries, ministerial-level agencies, Governmental agencies, People's Committees. provinces and centrally-run cities according to the provisions of the law and current press activities... Being interested by the Party and StateOur country's revolutionary press has had a rapid and comprehensive development, increasingly showing its role as a bridge between the Party, the State and the people, as a broad social forum for the promotion of democracy; is the defender of the people's legitimate interests... Not only has the number of press agencies, radio and television programs, and newspaper technology increased rapidly, the quality of publications has increasingly changed. new in terms of content and form of expression. The team of journalists has developed and matured in many aspects. In particular, the orientation of press development following the model of a multimedia media agency has created great possibilities for the transmission of information by press agencies, contributing to better ensuring the right to information and communication. receive information from the people.

The rapid development of mass media and the internet shows that freedom of speech and information freedom in Vietnam has improved and developed strongly. However, like every country in the world, Vietnamese law restricts freedom of expression, right to information and access to information in some cases, in accordance with the International Convention on civil and political rights, in order to respect the lawful and legitimate rights, reputation and honor of others; to protect national security, social order and safety, public health and morality of society. The cases that some websites cite to say that Vietnam violates the right to freedom of information, in fact, they have violated Vietnamese law. Like every other country in the world, in Vietnam all acts of obstructing or threatening the right to information and the freedom to access information; abusing the right to freedom of speech and freedom of information to infringe upon the lawful and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; causing damage to the reputation and honor of others; infringing upon national security, social order and safety, morality and public health... depending on the nature and extent, shall be handled according to the provisions of law.

However, we also objectively acknowledge that the guarantee of people's right to access to information still has some shortcomings and limitations that need to be overcome soon. It is noteworthy that the implementation of the Regulation on speaking and providing information to the press in some ministries, branches and localities is not good. There are also signs that officials assigned to speak, provide information to the press are afraid of responsibility, push for unauthorized people or cite many reasons to refuse to provide information. Some officials assigned to provide information lacked speaking skills, did not thoroughly understand the issues and cases, so they could not meet the requirements of the press and public opinion. The coordination between the spokesperson and the specialized function is not close, leading to the situation that the information provided is not timely and unclear. The investigation and handling of subjects who violate the people's right to information, spread misinformation, fabricate, defame, affect the honor and reputation of collectives and individuals... decisive, timely; sanctions are not strong enough...

Despite its limitations, Vietnam's achievements in ensuring the people's right to information are fundamental and undeniable. Those advances have been recognized and appreciated by international public opinion. The Party, State and people of Vietnam always strive to promote the achieved results and overcome shortcomings and limitations. On the other hand, Vietnam resolutely fights and rejects all false claims, distorts and distorts the truth about the guarantee of human rights in general and the right to information and access to information of the Vietnamese people in particular. ."	
"The Vietnamese State has always consistently adhered to the policy of respecting and protecting basic human freedoms, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of access to information, freedom of speech and freedom of the press. internet in general and social media in particular. This was enshrined in the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in 2013, concretized in many laws, decrees and many other legal documents and vividly expressed in practice.

In addition to online newspapers, news sites, through social networks (Facebook, YouTube, Lotus, Viber, Zalo, Twitter, Instagram...), Vietnamese people can freely share information, images, clips, express their personal views and opinions on all issues of social life. In the political system and administrative apparatus from the central to local levels in Vietnam, more and more agencies and organizations use social networks to work, handle administrative procedures, keep in touch with the people, grasp and promptly resolve the legitimate thoughts and aspirations of the masses...

Social freedom must be accompanied by social responsibility

It is necessary to strictly control this disinformation and distortion of the truth spread on social networks. Photo: Tuyen Giao.vn

Vietnam's legal system on freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of access to information of citizens is basically complete, synchronous and compatible with international human rights law. In particular, the Law on Cyber ​​Security (ANM), after one year of taking effect, has gradually come into life, bringing about very clear and practical effects in social life. Before, during and after the law was enacted, many misinformation from hostile and reactionary forces believed that Vietnam's promulgation of the ANM Law was a ""violation of human rights, strangling freedom and democracy, by speech ..."". In fact, after a year of implementation, it has proven that the ANM Law does not violate human rights at all, does not stifle freedom of expression, but on the contrary has created a solid legal foundation for prevention, fight, and prosecution. manage illegal activities in cyberspace, protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals... All individuals are still allowed to express their opinions in cyberspace, free speech is complete. There are no restrictions if you comply with the provisions of the law. Besides, the law has helped create a healthy and safe environment. Many information, articles, video clips that negatively affect social standards and ethics have been prevented and handled; personal privacy is protected; business operations on a secured network environment; Those who spread false information, especially about the Covid-19 epidemic, which caused confusion in public opinion and affected the prevention and control of the epidemic, have been handled.

Be alert in receiving information

On the other hand, it is also necessary to see that some people's awareness and views about the internet, social media and participation in social media are not correct and incomplete. Many users think that internet freedom and social media freedom are limitless, not clearly seeing the connection between their rights, obligations and responsibilities when participating in social networks. Due to the biased view of social media, there are still people who view social media with a biased attitude. Along with the strong development speed of the internet and social networks, Vietnam is also a country at risk of illegal acts from social networks.

In particular, the status of fake news, fraud, misrepresentation and fabrication through MXH is one of the painful issues that have emerged in recent times. What is the cause of this situation? Analysis shows that public opinion reacts very strongly to issues of traditional moral values ​​or hot issues, highly topical issues in social life. Taking advantage of this psychological factor, many people have created fake news, fraudulent news, distorted news, and distorted facts with personal motives and purposes. For economic purposes, an online sales department intentionally creates fake news and spreads fake news to attract the attention of customers to its social media page.

The outbreak of fake news and misinformation is also partly due to the people who access information, the people who participate in social networks. Due to limited awareness, lack of necessary knowledge and experience, many people do not know if the information they have access is right or wrong, has a scientific basis or not, affects others and society. How should I post, share, comment arbitrarily, irresponsibly... Taking advantage of this, hostile and reactionary forces create a lot of fake and malicious information to distorting propaganda, inciting, disturbing information, causing confusion in public opinion, creating instability in security and order to oppose our Party and State. Some subjects with the name of ""exercising the right to freedom of expression"" through social media to ""express their personal views"" were actually propagandizing against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and were handled before the law. After each case is handled, hostile and reactionary forces say that ""Vietnam violates freedom of speech"", ""violations of internet freedom""... It should be clearly stated that that tone for no other purpose than to cover, tolerate and abet acts that violate the law and are deeply anti-Vietnamese. Respect and protect rightsSocial media freedom is the duty of every country in the world. But like other fundamental rights, the right to freedom of social media is only protected when it is used for the right purposes and serves the common interests of the community. Any act of abusing this right to violate the law, not only in Vietnam but also in most countries around the world, must be strictly handled.

To deal with fake news and bad news in cyberspace, first of all, it is necessary to propagate and educate people to clearly see the dangers of the problem; raising awareness and sense of responsibility of the people, especially social media participants, need to be alert in accessing information to avoid being taken advantage of to help bad guys, and at the same time actively fight the problem of fake news.

Fake news spreads fastest among readers who are ignorant but too gullible and gullible… Therefore, each person needs to uphold their own responsibility, raise responsibility for the content posted and share. shall. Social media can be compared to a market, where people sell all kinds of information and images without anyone verifying or censoring. There are both real and fake goods, imitation goods; both fresh and stale goods… Each of us should become ""wise consumers"" when participating in this information market. Keep yourself cautious and always have the attitude of a knowledgeable, sober person. Only then can we create a standard filter in this information ""storm"" era.

Sanctions severely punished

Like most countries in the world, Vietnam always respects and protects basic human freedoms, including internet and social media freedom. On the other hand, for those who violate the provisions of the law on cyberspace, post information that is false, fraudulent, distorting, infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. .. the competent authorities of Vietnam will strictly handle according to the law. Vietnam resolutely opposes and fights against all acts of abusing human rights in general and freedom of the internet and social media in particular to oppose and interfere in Vietnam's internal affairs.

 On February 3, 2020, the Government of Vietnam issued Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP on ""sanctions for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, and information technology. information and electronic transactions” replacing Decree No. 174/2013/ND-CP dated November 13, 2013.

Decree No. 174/2013/ND-CP of the Government has quite specific regulations on the act of giving false information in the telecommunications environment. But the implementation process has limitations and the situation has changed, there are loopholes, the level of punishment is not enough deterrent... Therefore, the situation of using social networks, information pages, Personal accounts for posting false information have not decreased, even tended to increase.

Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP was born with 124 articles, more clearly and in more detail on administrative violations, sanctioning forms, sanctioning levels, remedial measures, competence the right to make minutes and the power to sanction administrative violations in the fields. This is considered a stronger remedy in preventing and combating fake, false and malicious information that has been spreading on the cyberspace recently.

The legal system of Vietnam is more and more complete, synchronous and timely to adjust all aspects of life. Bringing the law to life, raising awareness and awareness of law observance for the people is being focused on implementation by all levels, branches and localities. Along with that, in exercising their rights and obligations, it is important for each citizen to be very calm and alert in receiving and processing information. While exercising their rights, each person must also respect the rights and interests of collectives and individuals; always put the interests of the nation-nation first, clearly showing the spirit of rule of law.

Vietnam's promulgation of the ANM Law, Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP and related legal documents is essentially to protect the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of access. people's information, internet freedom and social media freedom are getting better and better; making Vietnam's network environment more and more fresh and safe, serving well the cause of national construction and defense. The argument is that the ANM Law, Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP and other legal documents that Vietnam has issued and implemented are ""strangling freedom of democracy, freedom of speech..."" , ""violating freedom of social networks""... is actually an act of distorting propaganda against our Party and State. Vietnam always aims to build a state of law, progressive, democratic and civilized, in which human rights in general, internet freedom, and social media freedom in particular are respected and guaranteed. At the same time, Vietnam resolutely exposes and fights uncompromisingly with organizations and individuals who take advantage of this issue to violate the law and go against the interests of the country and the people."	
"Commenting on the Draft Law on Cybersecurity (Draft Law), Chairman of the Vietnam Internet Association (VIA) - Mr. Vu Hoang Lien - said: ""It is necessary to set goals to create conditions for development. The concept of development must be understood as not to be left behind, because that means losing both domestic and foreign markets because the conditions are too tight, which will push domestic enterprises into a difficult position.

Information from Mr. Vu The Binh - Vice President of VIA - said that in addition to vague terms and criteria, some issues need to be clarified, specifically: ""Regulations on network security applies to all enterprises, or only to enterprises/agencies in charge of important national security information systems; Potentially overlapping with provisions in the Law on Cyberinformation Security, the Law on Telecommunications, the Law on Information Technology…”.

The VIA's document points out that there are a number of overlapping issues between the Draft Law and other existing laws, such as ""Section 2, Chapter II, the Law on Cyberinformation Security stipulates on standardization and conformity assessment. regulations on network information security. This assessment of conformity with standards and regulations is not only carried out by the Ministry of Information and Communications, but also functional units under the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense can also fully perform, in compliance with the Law on Standards and Regulations. technical standards. Therefore, adding additional requirements for assessment of conformity with standards and regulations on network security in Articles 15 and 16 of the Draft Law will lead to a situation where a product or equipment must comply with standards and regulations many times. .

Or some provisions of the Draft Law appear to be infringing on the regulation of other current laws such as ""The refusal to provide services to users specified in Clause 2d, Article 47 is contrary to the provisions of Article 47 of this Law. Article 26, Law on Telecommunications - “Telecommunications enterprises may not refuse to enter into contracts or unilaterally terminate contracts with telecommunications service users, unless there is a written request from a state agency. competent in accordance with the law”.

Meanwhile, Member of the Executive Committee of the Vietnam Information Security Association (VNISA) - Ms. Tran Thi Kim Phuong - said that ""some concepts and some regulations are not clear between the two concepts of network security and security."" network security. For example, there are provisions on information systems important for national security, there are parts that need a clearer separation from national important information systems as stipulated in the Law on Security. network information. Some regulations on procedures and conditions in the same field will push businesses to be regulated by two state agencies, ""- Ms. Phuong said.

Ms. Phuong gave a specific example: “The operation of providing network information security services is currently under the regulation of the Law on Cyberinformation Security, which appraises and licenses the operation. However, in Clause 3, Article 11 of the Draft Law, the Ministry of Public Security stipulates that the Ministry of Public Security shall assess the capacity and conditions for enterprises providing network information security services and for information systems important for national security. Thus, these enterprises will be subject to the regulation of two different state management agencies. This causes difficulties for businesses and overlaps between the Draft Law and the Law on Cyberinformation Security ""- Ms. Phuong assessed.

Confused about regulations on setting up servers in Vietnam

In the Draft Law, highlighting an issue that many opinions are concerned about is the provision in Clause 4, Article 34 on ensuring network information security, providing for representative offices and information data storage. users in Vietnam. VIA's opinion is that ""This regulation is not feasible and causes difficulties for businesses, preventing users from accessing the best technology and most advanced products, and at the same time does not increase the level of network safety; May violate WTO commitments and commitments in TPP and prevent data freedom and inhibit the development of digital economy in Vietnam; There is a risk of increasing the cost of doing business in Vietnam for both domestic and foreign firms. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will be more affected as they have fewer resources to ensure compliance with data storage requirements, as well as strict requirements for auditing and other compliance requirements”.

In this regard, at a press conference, a representative of the Information Security Department (Ministry of Information and Communications) said: ""Installing a server in Vietnam is an area that is almost within the sovereignty of national security, not the territory of Vietnam. within the scope of network information security. In fact, some foreign businesses have also set up servers in Vietnam. Some European countries and some other countries have also requested the same,” he said.

Concerned about this, Mr. Vu Hoang Lien commented: ""If domestic enterprises want to enter foreign markets, what if people also create such barriers? Are domestic products guaranteed to be supplied as foreign products are providing? Because otherwise, users will find other ways to overcome barriers to use their other products. And if the domestic product is good enough, but there are limits anyway, such as globalisation"	
"Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department (Ministry of Public Security) said that during the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity from November 2016 to before the National Assembly's approval, the drafting board collected comments. of many organizations and individuals, including reaching out to the responsible people of Facebook, Google, the US-ASEAN Business Association. The drafting committee explained and listened to the opinions of the parties.

“Through my discussions with representatives of these corporations, I have not seen them have any other opinions. They just asked if there was any impact, and when I explained it, they found it appropriate and said they would adjust their strategy,” said Mr. Thuan.

He said that the Asian Cloud Computing Association also found the drafting committee's explanation to be appropriate.

{keywords}
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department. Photo: CAND
The director affirmed: “The Drafting Board has received, requested, adjusted accordingly and submitted it to the National Assembly for voting and approval. It's not like someone propagandizes that the introduction of this law will greatly affect the business activities of enterprises providing telecommunications and internet services.""

There are exceptions to every country

Currently on social networks and some opinions that the Law on Cybersecurity violates international treaties. After the law was passed, did the drafter receive any feedback from international organizations and businesses such as Facebook, Google?

Never violated, we have reviewed it very fully and the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee has presented it very fully. I also listen to diplomats and they all insist that there are exceptions and that every country does.

As of now, I have not received any parameters. All the accusations are using cyberspace to incite, divide, distort, fabricate and they keep saying that public opinion is this and that.

Within the framework of this law, there are groups to protect the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises providing telecommunications and internet services that have never existed before.

There is an opinion that, if businesses follow the provisions of the law on setting up branches, representative offices and transferring user data to Vietnam, enterprises will incur more costs. Will this lead to the risk of some big companies like Facebook and Google withdrawing from the Vietnamese market?

Very simple and very easy when they are located in Vietnam, the bandwidth is much faster and much more economical. Of course, the Government will have specific regulations and not everyone will set up an office in Vietnam.

The Government's Decree will clearly stipulate how enterprises providing telecommunications services must store data, and must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam.

Up to now, there has been no official information about these enterprises withdrawing from Vietnam. Certainly with a very large market share like today, Vietnam with 48 million Facebook accounts, that is a huge market share that Facebook will have to consider.

SEE CLIP:

Cybersecurity Law Play
It's so virtual

The fact that the Cybersecurity Law stipulates a series of prohibitions as well as regulations on the management of user data makes many people concerned that it will affect users' freedom of speech in cyberspace?

We still say ""it's so virtual"", in fact, the Criminal Code stipulates 29 prohibited content, so by reference, these acts online will also be banned. And never before has children's rights been so protected in cyberspace.

Those whose dignity is violated, those who fabricate information whose behavior is referred to in accordance with 29 articles of the Penal Code and even the Civil Code, they must be handled. That means the rights of organizations and individuals are very protected.

It's impossible for real life murder threats to be dealt with, and online murder threats to be freed. Weapons cannot be bought and sold, instructions on how to use explosives are handled in real life, but online is free. And it is impossible to incite protests, bring petrol bombs and sticks in real life, they will be handled according to the provisions of the law, but online, they will not be considered and handled.

I affirm that this law does not affect the right to freedom of speech if we express our views correctly and do not violate the provisions of the law. We can still freely use the network to operate if we do not violate the law. We are allowed to speak, to criticize issues, as long as we do not violate the criminal law referred to.

It can be said that there is no law that provides provisions to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using cyberspace like this law. Especially religions and ethnic groups are protected. Anyone who offends the nation, who discriminates against gender will be handled according to the provisions of the law, of course, depending on the extent and specific instructions will be given.

In fact, revealing and leaking personal information is quite common nowadays, so how does the law control this? Does the law require businesses to provide data to investigative agencies in violation of user privacy?

It is businesses that are storing a lot of personal information and are revealing a lot of personal information. We just got to the airport when there was a message whether to take a taxi or not, weWe are meeting and also receive information about buying and selling land here and there. This leak is due to the bad management of enterprises.

Until now, the security agency has never asked too much, only when there is a violation of the law, we will raise the problem. That is a fact.

Article 17 of the law provides very detailed regulations on protection of secrets and prevention of leaks. The task of the agency in charge of network security is to protect those secrets. We can rest assured that if the cybersecurity agency does not do this well, it must be responsible for the country and the people.

Article 26 also stipulates very carefully, including the responsibility of enterprises to keep user information confidential. If that secret is revealed, the enterprise must be responsible.

Enterprises only provide user information to the specialized network security force when there is a written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security.

We have to solve this story and don't let the bad forces take advantage of our compatriots, hit our own people, don't let our compatriots destroy our property, which is the taxpayer's money spent on shopping.

There can be no abuse of power

There are concerns that this law gives too much power to the authorities in assessing content related to defaming leaders or denying revolutionary achievements. So how to avoid unbiased or perhaps attributed to organizations and people when they post such information on social networks?

We are doing it very properly and methodically according to the provisions of the law.

In determining information that violates the law, if it is related to information and communication issues, the Ministry of Information and Communications will be the appraiser, when related to culture, the Ministry of Culture will appraise. The specialized cyber security agency of the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense also, based on those assessments, proposes to provide information when investigating violations of the law.

Thus, it is impossible for the specialized force in charge of cybersecurity to abuse power.

Moreover, the law also clearly stipulates prohibitions for agencies in charge of network security, or for certain individuals and organizations to take advantage of cyber security operations to infringe upon national security, legitimate rights and interests. Laws of organizations and individuals, social order and safety will certainly be strictly handled before the law.

In fact, it can also be seen that the Cyber ​​Security Department or the Cyber ​​Command of the Ministry of Defense has never had such behavior.

On social networks, there are many opinions disagreeing with this law, there are even many opinions calling for protests… How does the drafting board deal with this flow of opinions?

In the immediate future, you must make everyone understand correctly, do not think about handling.

There is no perfect law. Yesterday, someone asked me if this law was introduced to prevent acts in cyberspace?

The agency in charge of network security must also know what is allowed, what is prohibited, if you violate it, you will also be strictly handled before the law.

We always listen to adjust, ask for the most appropriate content in the decree guiding the implementation of the law in the near future."	
"One aspect of the concept of human rights is the right to freedom of expression. Regarding freedom of speech, freedom of the press, since 1946, in article 10 of the first Constitution, these rights have been affirmed. History has its ups and downs, but under any circumstances, human rights, including the right to freedom of speech and freedom of the press, have always been guaranteed by the Party and State of Vietnam and this has not changed. changed until the 2013 Constitution.

However, despite great strides in the realization of human rights, including freedom of speech and press, which are recognized by the world, in recent years, opposing forces, Political associations, subjects who are not sympathetic to Vietnam still often misrepresent and distort the actual situation in Vietnam, trying to paint a picture of a country where these rights are seriously violated. important.

Pham Thi Doan Trang has been prosecuted for crimes against the State. In addition to the act of making, storing and circulating documents with anti-State content, the accused also distorts the State's lines and policies and defames the government in foreign media.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 2.
According to the investigation, Trang used to collaborate with a number of newsrooms, but was forced to resign and stripped of her journalistic card since 2013. Trained by an outside reactionary organization, Trang became increasingly a subject of extremist ideology. openly and decisively anti-corruption activities. In her 2018 self-declaration, Trang even confirmed her activities aimed at overthrowing the regime. Because of illegal acts, Trang has been prosecuted and detained by the security agency for investigation since October 2020.

An object that has no journalistic status and seriously violates Vietnamese laws, but is painted by organizations like ""Reporters Without Borders"" as independent journalists, fighting with the negative so that Vietnam has no freedom of the press. Freedom of the press and freedom of speech do not mean infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of communities and individuals protected by law.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 3.
The organization ""Reporters Without Borders"" paints Pham Thi Doan Trang as an independent journalist who fights against negativity, thereby accusing Vietnam of having no freedom of the press.

In fact, the right to freedom of speech in general and freedom of the press in particular are rights respected and protected by the Constitution and laws of Vietnam from the very beginning of the country's founding. Along with the development of the country, of the revolutionary press and information and communication platforms, these rights are increasingly regulated and specifically regulated according to the framework of the law.

Newspapers contribute to the development of the country

In the so-called reports on the human rights situation in Vietnam over the years, a phrase often appears. That is ""Vietnam continues to violate freedom of speech and freedom of the press"". This tone, if compared with the reality of the development of the press in Vietnam today, no one understands, what is it based on.

By the end of 2020, the whole country has nearly 800 press agencies, more than 100 newspapers have electronic journalism activities; more than 600 journals; 25 independent electronic press agencies. Genres are also enough, paper newspapers, audio newspapers, video newspapers, and even electronic newspapers. If there is any kind of press in the world, there is that kind of press in Vietnam. Even the model of a converged newsroom with a full range of press forms at each press agency is also being promoted.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 4.
Article 10 of the first Constitution provides for freedom of speech and publication

Clearly, this growth cannot come about under an institution that, as disinformation claims, is the growth of a strangled press.

Vietnam's current Press Law also clearly states what the press must not do, for example, the press must not incite people to oppose the State, undermine the great national unity bloc; must not incite violence, propagate wars of aggression, incite lewdness, debauchery, crimes; provide false information, distort, slander, in order to offend the honor of the organization, the honor and dignity of citizens. And looking at that, it can be seen that this prohibition is completely reasonable, and I don't know which country allows this.

Except for such provisions, there is nothing in the law that requires the press to write this way or that way. Obeying the statutory principles not only promotes the development of the press, but also makes the press a resource that contributes to the development of the country.

More than a month ago, when implementing social distancing according to Directive 16, Hanoi city had regulations on issuing travel permits to people and businesses.

In the spirit of commenting because it is clear that the government has difficulties in implementing unprecedented solutions to combat the epidemic, many articles and reportages have timely reflected the multi-dimensional opinions of all classes. people, businesses andexpert.





Many articles reflect different opinions on the regulations on issuance of road permits in Hanoi

In fact, over the past time, there have been a series of cases where the media's multi-dimensional and constructive comments and criticisms have made an important contribution and brought about social effectiveness. In the spirit of listening, many authorities have made timely adjustments in line with reality. This shows that in Vietnam, positive feedback from the press is always appreciated and listened to.

However, for a long time, in cyberspace, reactionary and unfriendly forces, organizations and individuals have kept repeating statements such as: Criticism is foreign to the Vietnamese press, the Vietnamese press. Men are only highlighted in pink, Vietnamese newspapers are censored and content-oriented…




""Social criticism"" is the term stated in the Document of the 11th Congress, 2011 of the Party: ""Focusing on raising ideological character, strongly promoting the functions of information, education, organization and reflection. social advocacy of the mass media for the benefit of the people and the country..."". The Press Law 2016 also affirms: The press has the right to ""take part in the formulation and implementation of the Party's guidelines, guidelines and policies, and the State's laws"".

In fact, the Vietnamese press has contributed a strong voice in reflecting the reality of the country's development with critical, multi-dimensional perspectives, reflecting both limitations, shortcomings, and not highlighting in order to contribute a constructive voice.

To say that the Vietnamese press only writes according to orientation is baseless… No one forbids criticism and is never forced to write this and that.

Mr. Tran Ba ​​Dung, Head of Professional Affairs, Vietnam Journalists Association

Reading from the internet, social networks, there is a very commonly used argument, that is, the Vietnamese press is strictly censored, only talking about positive information, beneficial to the Party and State, then which newspaper writes Regarding the negative, any journalist who dares to fight against it will sooner or later have to pay the price.

Reality is not so. The Party and State have been and always look at the truth, appreciate the truth, and also expect the press to reflect honestly, objectively and constructively; does not highlight but also does not blacken reality.

There are countless examples of negative and corrupt media reports. Daily life cases such as inadequacies in road permits in Hanoi during the epidemic season, and the non-food bread case in Khanh Hoa province, after the press got involved, the local government made adjustments and repairs. timely. Or without the participation of the press, the bluff spending of state money at PMU 18, to the laxity in cadre work in the Trinh Xuan Thanh case, how could it be detected and remedied.

Painting an all-pink picture to cover up objective reality, this only leads to the collapse of a country, a regime. Facing reality, solving the evil seeds in the development process, that is the way for a country to rise.

The Party and State of Vietnam are doing that, and creating conditions for the press to participate in the process of reflecting on limitations and negatives has always been supported and facilitated by the Party and State.

The Party, State and people all highly appreciate the great contribution of the press on the anti-negative front. How many big cases the press discovered, committed, rushed into difficult places, to the end of the alley to fight negative corruption.

Mr. Lai Xuan Mon, Standing Deputy Head of the Central Propaganda Department



Ridiculous argument ""Vietnam does not have Internet freedom""

After distorting about press freedom, the subjects also said that there is no internet freedom in Vietnam. Most recently, a report by Freedom House organization listed Vietnam in the group of ""countries without Internet freedom in 2021"".

Many Vietnamese people laughed because without internet freedom, how could one read such a one-sided, outdated and baseless report.

According to the latest statistics of We Are Social, Vietnam is the country with the 12th highest number of Internet users worldwide. What about mobile Internet? From 3G, then 4G, and now 5G is being deployed, the Internet has reached every corner of the country, from urban to rural, from plain to mountainous, border, island, to every citizen. Vietnam is free to seek information, share and express personal views.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 9.
These are living proofs that the Party and State of Vietnam always respect and protect the right to freedom of information and Internet freedom of every citizen.

If there is concern about internet freedom in Vietnam, it should only be worried about one thing, that is because of internet freedom, the health of a part of young people in Vietnam is affected by internet addiction. Where it is difficult to access the internet, but in this country, the internet is for the whole people.

Freedom House rated Vietnam at 22 out of 100 points according to 3 criteria: ""Obstacles accessing the internet"", ""Content restrictions"", and ""Violation of internet user rights"".

UnfoundedVietnamese tunes do not have internet freedom, misrepresent press freedom - Photo 10.
But it is absurd that these assessments are mainly based on the data of a person named Trinh Huu Long and do not live in Vietnam. This is also the subject who set up a website specializing in publishing propaganda articles that distort and destroy the Party and State of Vietnam, and is also a member of a branch of the terrorist organization Viet Tan.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 11.
Trinh Huu Long is the subject of setting up a website specializing in publishing propaganda articles that distort and oppose the Party and State of Vietnam.

Freedom House's rating is in stark contrast to the ratings of other Organizations. As We Are Social & Hootsuite has reported on the Internet accessibility index, Vietnam has 150 million mobile connections and 68 million internet users. 3G/4G infrastructure has covered 99.8% of the population and fiber optic internet has reached 98% of the wards and communes.

As for Internet freedom, all the major social networking service providers in the world are present.

In Vietnam, the Internet does not merely serve the social life of the people. The Internet is a fundamental element to build a digital government and solve most of the government's work.

But in many different ways, hostile forces try to distort Vietnam's freedom to access the Internet. They argue that Vietnam has not made any progress in this regard.

Recently, hostile forces also said that in Vietnam, social network users are not allowed to express their thoughts and opinions. But the fact is that people arrested by Vietnamese authorities are cases of violations of Vietnamese law with very specific violations.

Freedom House is an organization in the US, with a very weak reputation in Europe, they like to evaluate and ""teach life"" other countries on how to behave… From the beginning, the report intended to criticize the regime. Vietnamese politics should therefore draw a series of negative judgments.

Mr. Jean Noel Poirier, former Ambassador of the French Republic to Vietnam



Those who take advantage of press freedom to oppose

By appointment again, every year, in thousands of pages of reports by a number of foreign organizations, Vietnam ranks first on the list of press freedom, described as an enemy of freedom. by the press. This stems from the handling of so-called ""journalists"" such as: Truong Duy Nhat, Pham Doan Trang, Pham Chi Dung, Nguyen Tuong Thuy, Le Dung Vova.

But who these people are, they are not degenerate journalists, they are self-proclaimed journalists, not recognized by law. The press products of these subjects are nothing more than online articles aimed at profiteering, criticizing, distorting, smearing the government, and dividing the people. The most important thing is that they only use the press as a disguise to carry out purposes that are not allowed by law, even going against the interests of the nation and nation.

On January 5, 2021, three members of the so-called ""Vietnam Independent Journalists Association"" were convicted. Defendant Pham Chi Dung 15 years in prison. Nguyen Tuong Thuy and Le Huu Minh Tuan, together 11 years in prison.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 13.
Defendant Pham Chi Dung (right) at the trial.

The severe sentence of 37 years in prison for these three subjects immediately became a magnet for democracy and human rights speakers.

In fact, the so-called journalistic works of these subjects, it can be seen that the press is just a cover to connect and contact objects and organizations with discontented thoughts about politics in and around the world. abroad, thereby propagating, distorting, fabricating and infringing upon the prestige of the Party and State.

On September 9, 2021, 5 defendants of the press group with the seemingly clean name ""Clean newspaper"", were prosecuted. Just waiting for that, on social networks, some organizations and individuals immediately reacted with the statement: ""The dream of press freedom is broken"", ""Vietnam arrests independent journalists""... The operating principle sounds very straightforward as ""Independence of sources - Verification of information-Neutrality with politics"", however, these members spread unverified and untrue information.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 14.
Looking back at these faces, it can be seen that the path leading them to the horseshoe originates from taking advantage of freedom of speech, freedom of the press for personal gain, or spreading bad news, distorting the truth. , smearing the Party and State, inciting anti-socialism in Vietnam.

The card of freedom, democracy - the cover of hostile forces

Criticizing and condemning the Party and State of Vietnam on democracy and human rights, this is nothing new. Standing behind that, if not individuals who oppose democracy and human rights, are also reactionary organizations such as Viet Tan, Viet Dynasty, or organizations that are not sympathetic to Vietnam such as Amnesty International, Freedom House, Human Rights Watch,or Reporters Without Borders RSF.

One of the most noticeable points is that these organizations often rely on one-sided, subjective reports and then draw incriminating conclusions. Freedom of the press only appears in the countries they want, the institutions they like, it has nothing to do with the reality that is happening.

For Vietnam, the fact that such organizations often use the card of freedom and democracy, associated with all aspects of life, including the press, is only to portray Vietnam with a hostile and misleading appearance. which goes against the universal values ​​of the world. Positive condemnation is that, but do they really care about democracy and human rights in Vietnam? It's just a cover to aim for a completely different goal.

Taking the name of an independent organization, the so-called ""Vietnam Human Rights Network"" annually collects a report on the human rights situation in Vietnam. They also set up human rights awards to promote the number of reactionaries, political opportunists, and dissidents in the country.

Unfounded claims that Vietnam does not have internet freedom, misrepresenting press freedom - Photo 15.
The ""Vietnam Human Rights Network"" promotes the number of reactionaries, political opportunists, and opponents in the country.

But their real ambition is not to improve human rights for anyone as in their operating principles, but to find ways to disrupt the country, call for international intervention in Vietnam, remove the leadership role. of the Party.

Press freedom or democracy and human rights under the hands of hostile forces and reactionary organizations has become one of the spearheads of peaceful development.

After more than 100 years of war against imperialist aggression, the Vietnamese people have spared no blood and blood in exchange for independence and freedom. More than anyone else, this people understands the measure and value of those freedoms. Including freedom of speech and freedom of the press.

The Party and State of Vietnam have always determined that people are at the center of all policies, considering people as both the driving force and the goal of national construction and development.

In that spirit, protecting human rights is a natural thing that the Party and State will pay attention to and ensure. Thereby also contributing to show the superiority of the regime. However, human rights must be respected, but still cannot be above the law, cannot go against the interests of the nation and nation.

Therefore, Vietnam's rhetoric of commercial loans, crying for rent, and screaming for democracy and human rights will not bring any results. In particular, when the truth of the subjects behind have been fully identified, those who speak the language of democracy and human rights are delusional and out of place to attempt to promote peaceful development, towards overthrowing. regime in Vietnam.

However, our grandparents have a saying ""Fake hair into legs"". If these false messages are repeated over and over, there will be times when people will believe they are real and cause unpredictable consequences. Therefore, fighting and removing them from the network environment will be something that will have to be done regularly and continuously"	
"The newly introduced Cybersecurity Law stipulates the basic contents of network security protection with important national security information systems; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals. In addition to stipulating the principles of ensuring security in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity also specifically stipulates prohibited acts, and dedicates a whole chapter on cyber security protection for the system. important national security information.


Illustration.

Article 16 of the Law states: Information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam includes: Propaganda distorting and defaming the people's administration; Psychological warfare, inciting wars of aggression, division and hatred among nations, religions and peoples of different countries; Offending the nation, the national flag, the national emblem, the national anthem, great people, leaders, famous people, national heroes.

Information on cyberspace with content that incites riots, disrupts security or disrupts public order includes: Calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, causing division, conducting armed activities use or use violence to oppose the people's administration; Calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, attracting large gatherings of people to cause trouble, oppose official duty performers, obstruct the activities of agencies and organizations, causing instability in security and order.

Information on cyberspace with humiliating or slanderous content includes: Serious insult to the honor, reputation and dignity of others; Fabricated or untrue information infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of other organizations and individuals.

Information on cyberspace with content infringing upon economic management order includes: fabricated and untrue information about products, goods, money, bonds, bills, bonds, checks and other types of information. other valuable papers; Fabricated and untrue information in the field of finance, banking, e-commerce, electronic payment, currency trading, capital mobilization, multi-level business, securities...

In addition, it also stipulates that information on cyberspace has untrue content that causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, and causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or organizations. official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other organizations and individuals.

 From different aspects, it is found that in cyberspace, it is still quite common for websites with illegal content to threaten national security and the legitimate rights and interests of individuals. person, organization. This malicious information negatively affects the ideological situation and public opinion.

The Ministry of Information and Communications has continuously taken measures to request representatives of internet service providers such as Facebook, Google, YouTube, etc. to prevent, process and remove information that violates Vietnamese law. on social networks, and at the same time strengthen cooperation in information safety and security. By the end of 2017, at the request of the Ministry of Information and Communications, Google had prevented and removed about 6,500/7,500 malicious clips on YouTube that violated Vietnamese law; Facebook has removed 670/5,000 fake accounts, engaged in divisive activities, insulting the honor of individuals and organizations, promoting lewd, depraved images, inciting violence... Besides, the Ministry of Information Information and Communication is conducting research, developing a Code of Conduct for service providers and users of social networks in Vietnam, towards building a healthy network environment.

The process of the National Assembly discussing and developing the Law on Cybersecurity has received the attention of a large number of people and business communities at home and abroad. On a general level, domestic and foreign authorities and businesses assess that the Law on Cybersecurity is the legal basis to create a playing field, a healthy and equal business environment, and help handle illegal acts. intrusion, network attack. The law will contribute to creating a healthy competitive environment between domestic and foreign enterprises in cyberspace, how domestic enterprises are managed, and foreign enterprises are also subject to the same management. For domestic internet service businesses, when internet data is stored in Vietnam, the cost of transmission lines will be reduced compared to overseas storage. For domestic businesses operating in commerce and advertising on the internet through Facebook, Google, Youtube, etc., foreign businesses will have to share tax obligations.

When our country announced the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity, many foreign newspapers voiced their support. Bangladesh's Dhakatribune newspaper has an article that disagrees with the opinions that Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law is set to restrict Facebook and Google and will hurt investors' confidence and hinder the development momentum of the country. Vietnam's digital economy; At the same time, giving arguments and evidence, saying that this law will create more jobs for Vietnam as well asbrings strong commitments from investors, so it is very beneficial for domestic economic development.

The legal system in general is a solid legal foundation that protects the rights and obligations of all citizens. All citizens are equal before the law. The Law on Cybersecurity was born in harmony with the Constitution and other laws, in compliance with international law and this is a new law, born to meet the development requirements of the country towards the scientific and technological revolution. 4.0.

Sanctions of the Cybersecurity Law only apply to criminal acts (through taking advantage of the internet and social networks), so the Law on Cybersecurity not only protects and better protects national independence, national rights in cyberspace, but also create conditions to better ensure national interests.

The fact that some reactionary hostile forces take advantage of the process of developing and promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity as well as some contents of this Law to argue that the Cybersecurity Law ""infringes upon the right to freedom of expression""; ""creating barriers to business"", ""increasing costs for businesses""... These are fabricated and distorted information and just an excuse for hostile forces to destroy our Party and State, causing a wild mentality. suspicion and suspicion among the masses, thereby requiring the people to be very alert and vigilant, and to strengthen their belief in an equal and healthy legal environment in cyberspace."	
"This law does not affect freedom of speech. It can be said that there is no law that provides provisions to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using cyberspace like this law.

And never before has children's rights been so protected in cyberspace. Anyone whose dignity is violated, who fabricates information whose conduct is referred to in accordance with 29 articles of the Penal Code (direct laws and relevant laws) and even the Civil Code, they must be punished. handle. That means the rights of organizations and individuals are very protected.

We can still freely use the network to operate if we do not violate the law.

I affirm that there is nothing to hinder speech as long as we express our views correctly and do not violate the provisions of the law.

We still say ""so real"". In fact, the Penal Code stipulates 29 prohibited content, so by reference, these acts online will also be prohibited.

It's not possible that a real-life murder threat can be dealt with, while a cyber-threat is freed. Weapons cannot be bought and sold, instructions on how to use explosives are handled in real life, but online is free. And it is impossible to incite protests, bring petrol bombs and sticks in real life, they will be handled according to the provisions of the law, but online, they will not be considered and handled.

It can be affirmed that our law has never protected the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals so much. Especially religions and ethnic groups are protected. Anyone who offends the nation, who discriminates against gender will be handled according to the provisions of the law, of course, depending on the extent and specific instructions will be given.

But we remember that this is the first time there is a regulation to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. We are allowed to speak, to criticize issues, as long as we do not violate the criminal law referred to.

Sir, this Law also stipulates handling of defamatory acts in cyberspace. So to what extent is defamatory and untrue information in cyberspace regulated?
Social ethics always condemn bad words, lies, and untruths.

The Penal Code regulates acts of seriously infringing upon the honor, reputation and dignity of organizations and individuals under the crime of humiliation, the crime of slander.

The Civil Code stipulates the level of compensation for acts that offend the honor, dignity and reputation of a legal entity or another subject according to the extent of the damage.

The Law on Cybersecurity regulates fabricated and untrue information that infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, and causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers.

Depending on the severity of the violation and the evidence collected in accordance with the law, the competent authority will propose handling in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code or the Civil Code.

What kind of content posted online is said to defame Party and State leaders? For example, is calling people to protest considered prohibited under this law?

This can be seen as a dangerous situation in terms of network security. We don't want something incited to burn police cars, and we don't want people or mobile soldiers to bleed. Therefore, we must solve this story and do not let the evil forces take advantage, let our compatriots beat our own people, do not let our compatriots destroy the right property due to the tax money of our own people. shopping."	
"- Sir, how does the Law on Cybersecurity affect people's freedom of speech?
+ First, it can be affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity has absolutely no effect on people's right to freedom of speech. There is no law that provides regulations to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals using new network information like this. Never before has children's rights been so protected on online information. The Law on Cybersecurity emphasizes the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations on network information. People are comfortable using the network to do activities that do not violate the law. There is absolutely no provision to impede free speech.
Only individuals who give false, fabricated, or insulting information according to 29 articles of the Penal Code will be handled. It is impossible to threaten to kill people online and be free, but in reality, they will be punished. It is impossible to freely buy and sell weapons, explosives, detailed instructions on how to use them, but in real life, they will be dealt with, but not on the internet… Who offends the nation, sovereignty, religion, or who discriminates against gender on the internet? …will be dealt with.

-Is it mandatory for businesses to disclose personal information to security agencies in violation of personal privacy protection?
+ Do not violate anything. Because there is article 17 of the Law already. Article 17 is very strict to protect the privacy of individuals and families. ""Enterprises when providing telecommunications services, internet and value-added services... are responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts, and keeping user's account information confidential."" Therefore, it is the responsibility of the business to maintain confidentiality. Failure to do so will be handled.
""Provide information to users in charge of network security protection upon written request to serve the investigation of violations of the law on network security"". In the event that the Law provides so, it will be provided. For example, when I see an online exchange of buying and selling explosives to prepare for terrorism, the involved party must definitely provide information for us to handle, otherwise a disaster will occur.
In addition, information will not be arbitrarily provided and must be treated as confidential. If you reveal that secret, you will be held responsible. Right now a lot of our information is being leaked.

-But the sign of violation seems to be very vague, sir?
+ No ambiguity. This issue is referred to in 29 articles of the Criminal Law. If we detect signs of a bomb, we have to arrest it immediately. Information must be requested to verify if the person is true or just fabricated information. And after that, we can handle the law or handle it in another form.
And I believe that when formulating this, the National Assembly's Committee on Defense and Security and the Law Committee of the National Assembly scrutinized it very carefully.

-In the Law, there is a sentence that is quite vague. For example ""insulting great people"". So how to identify ""great man"", sir?
+ This must be appraised by relevant functional ministries. If the Ministry replies that there is a violation, we will be handled. For example, related to credit fraud, it is necessary to ask the State Bank and financial economic groups to determine whether there is a violation. There are a lot of people losing money and this has to be verified by a cybersecurity agency. We have to step by step investigate, verify and clarify whether it is subjective, objective, age...
Of course, no law is perfect. Someone asked me, ""Does this law prevent acts in cyberspace?"". I replied: ""Criminal Law is enacted, but murder is still there, robbery is still there"". Having a Cybersecurity Law is there to provide scope for what is protected and to know prohibited behavior for us to avoid. Even the agency in charge of cybersecurity must rely on this Law to know what is prohibited and what is allowed.

-From now until the decree is formulated, will the editorial board continue to listen to people's opinions, sir?
+ The editorial board always listens, always adjusts, always asks for the right content to be submitted. All decrees are commented by agencies, economic groups, and internet telecommunications groups. I affirm so.

-During the drafting of the Law on Cybersecurity, did we work with Google…?
+ The draft Law on Cybersecurity was developed in November 2016 according to the Resolution of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister then issued a decision to establish a Drafting Committee. Members include many ministries and branches, not only the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Planning and Investment, the Ministry of Defense, etc. During the construction process, the drafting committee also followed Decree 72 on setting up servers and offices in Vietnam. Then, when submitting the Law on Cybersecurity at the 4th Session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly also asked how to adjust it to suit the recommendations of businesses and internet telecommunications corporations.
During the drafting process, the drafting team also had the opportunity to approach major telecommunications corporations in the world such as Google, Facebook, Youtube, American Business Association, ASEAN.... Thereby to explain and listen to their opinions on our Cybersecurity billour basil.
After the two sides worked and agreed, the representatives of those units agreed to adjust their strategies accordingly. The corporations themselves, these units also see our adjustments and regulations as appropriate. It is completely unlikely that Google and Facebook will withdraw from the Vietnamese market. And certainly with a market share like that of Vietnam, currently 48 million Facebook accounts and will certainly be larger, so there is no such thing as rumors. There is absolutely no information about this."	
"Let people feel secure to operate online

Talking about the Law on Cybersecurity, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the law-making process had been elaborately and thoroughly prepared, with the participation and comments of ministries, functional branches, and telecommunications businesses. domestic and foreign communications, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon...

The Law on Cybersecurity fully stipulates measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and handle illegal acts, including: Prevention and handling of information In cyberspace, there are contents of propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, inciting riots, disrupting security, disturbing public order, humiliating, slandering, infringing upon economic management order, prevention and control. combating cyber espionage, protecting State secret information, work secrets, personal information in cyberspace...

Along with that is the prevention of cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyberwar as well as prevention and handling of dangerous situations in cyber security, fighting for network security...

The law also requires domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to collect, exploit, analyze and process data. about personal information, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. .

""This is a solid legal corridor so that people can feel secure to trade, do business or operate in cyberspace,"" said Lieutenant General Thuan.



Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan - Director of the Cybersecurity Department (Ministry of Public Security) - introduced the Cybersecurity Law 2018 - Photo: D. BINH

Answering more questions from the press, Lieutenant General Hoang Quoc Thuan affirmed: ""The Law on Cybersecurity does not restrict people's democratic freedoms. People will be protected by the State when they do all the things that are not prohibited. prohibited by reference in 29 articles of the Penal Code or other relevant laws"".

Lieutenant General Thuan also said that the drafting committee has been meeting with the Ministry of Justice to prepare to develop a decree guiding the implementation of the law, which is expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister in October 2018 for consideration and promulgation.

Email complaints are still accepted

Presenting the 2018 Law on Denunciations, Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh - Deputy Inspector General of the Government - said that the new law is expected to overcome the limitations and shortcomings of the 2011 Law on Denunciations, which have led to a decrease in effectiveness and efficiency. denunciation settlement, affecting law order and discipline.

The new Law on Denunciations, according to the Deputy Inspector General of the Government, is ""very complete and comprehensive"", clearly stipulating the receipt and handling of denunciations and information about crimes, the rights and obligations of whistleblowers and victims. denunciation, denunciation settler.

The law clearly stipulates that in addition to protecting the whistleblower, the whistleblower's wife, husband, biological father, natural mother, adoptive father, adoptive mother, biological and adopted children are also protected. The scope of protection includes confidentiality of information, working position, employment, life, health, property, honor and dignity.



Mr. Giang Son - Standing Vice Chairman of the President's Office chaired a press conference to announce 7 new laws on the morning of June 28 - Photo: D. BINH

The new law continues to stipulate two forms of denunciation like the old law, which is denunciation by letter and direct denunciation. Explaining why the denunciation has not been received by email, the Deputy Inspector General of the Government said that this form is ""very difficult to verify"" and ""lack of human resources to implement"".

However, Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh affirmed that denunciations via email are still accepted, and agencies receiving information still have to consult, consider and study such denunciations.

The National Defense Law, according to Senior Lieutenant General Le Chiem - Deputy Minister of National Defense, has added explanations for terms such as military, people's war, national defense, information war, disaster, defense of military zones. , civil defense, combining defense with economy, society and economy, society with national defense...

The Law also supplements the provisions that the Hanoi Capital's defense area is an integral part of the national defense to suit the specific nature and tasks of the Hanoi Capital and the Capital Law.

The law also supplements regulations on information warfare, cyber warfare, etc."	
"Cybersecurity is a non-traditional security issue, relatively new, but increasingly concerned by the world at both macro and micro levels.

In Vietnam, over 55% of the population is using mobile phones, over 52% of the population and ranked 4th in the world in terms of internet usage time, 22nd in the world by population. number of people using social networks. Every year, Vietnam suffers from thousands of cyber attacks and Vietnam ranks 20th in the world in terms of ranking of countries with the most cyberattacks, suffering a loss of up to 10,400 billion VND in 2016 alone compared to 8,700 billion dong 2015. In the first quarter of 2017, the whole country had about 7,700 websites/websites attacked by cyberattacks in the form of frauds, malicious code installations, interface changes, etc. In the first half of 2017, both The country has more than 4,600 information pages with national domain names hacked or hijacked by hackers, an increase of nearly 50% over the same period in 2016. Of these, 148 websites are under the management of state agencies. countries, where many serious security holes exist, which hackers can exploit and take over. Many confidential information and documents of the state, aviation, banking, and telecommunications industries are at risk of being leaked and seriously damaged.

                
      
            The National Assembly voted to pass the Law on Cybersecurity with an approval rate of 86.86%. Photo: VNA
The reality in the country and the world shows that, a false rumor about financial status, senior personnel, bank director running away or being arrested, especially, rumor about money exchange or the like, … all directly and indirectly have adverse effects on the stability of related financial-credit institutions and can have spillover effects on the entire economy. The consequences are even greater when the information is ambiguous, the inference is groundless, the source is unclear and difficult to verify specifically, while the units and authorities themselves are slow to respond to official handling, not transparently. information, not actively disclosing necessary information. Therefore, information security becomes more and more urgent in the context of the explosive revolution in communication technology, the Internet of Things and social networks, increasing global connectivity, and automatically connecting computer systems. increasingly intervening in financial and investment activities in the world; at the same time there is an increase in requirements for disclosure, transparency and democratization of information in an open and civilized society. Not only the outbursts of information, stemming from misunderstandings, many negative information are fabricated and released at sensitive times, which has caused confusion and eroded confidence in society, pushing people and Investors deploy safety plans for their assets, without unknowingly knowing that they are abetting the profiteers. In fact, the recent media shows that the careful withdrawal of headlines and expressions can mislead Bitcoin as money and Vietnam has allowed it to be used as foreign currency, leading to many dangerous consequences.

Therefore, in the period of technological revolution, we need to take full advantage of the technological revolution, but on the other hand, it also requires management and prevention of abuse in order to protect national security in the world. cyberspace and civil rights protection. This must be the shared responsibility of relevant authorities, organizations, media agencies, social communities and individuals.

To ensure network security, Vietnam has established a specialized agency on cyber security (Force 47) dedicated to fighting in cyberspace and Vietnam is not the only country with an online army. In particular, on June 12, 2018, the National Assembly passed the Law on Cybersecurity, with the approval vote reaching 86.86% out of a total of 95.69% of the voting delegates.

In the Law on Cybersecurity, prohibited acts are also specified in other laws and codes, such as the Penal Code, the Civil Code, etc. of Vietnam. Specifically, Articles 8, Articles 16 and 17 clearly stipulate prohibited acts in using cyberspace, including composing, posting and spreading information on cyberspace with anti-state propaganda content. Socialist Republic of Vietnam (including propaganda that distorts and defames the people's administration; psychological warfare, inciting wars of aggression, division, and hatred among nations, religions and peoples) people of other countries; insulting the nation, national flag, national emblem, national anthem, great man, leader, celebrity, national hero); inciting riots, disrupting security, causing public disorder (including calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, causing division, conducting armed activities or using violence against the government) people; calling, mobilizing, instigating, threatening, enticing large gatherings to cause trouble, oppose official duty performers, obstruct activities of agencies and organizations, causing instability in security and order on one's own); humiliation, slander (including seriously insulting the honor, reputation and dignity of others; fabricating and untrue information infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity or causing damage to rights and interests legitimate interests of other organizations and individuals); infringing upon the economic management order (including fabricated information, falseinformation on products, goods, money, bonds, bills, bonds, checks and other valuable papers; fabricated and untrue information in the fields of finance, banking, e-commerce, electronic payment, currency trading, capital raising, multi-level business, securities); Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals.

The law also prohibits acts of cyber espionage; infringing on state secrets, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace (including appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing information belonging to state secrets or work secrets; business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life that affect the honor, reputation, dignity, lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; intentionally delete or damage damage, loss or change of information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life are transmitted and stored in cyberspace; intentionally change, cancel or disable technical measures developed and applied to protect information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, secrets family secrets and private life; posting on cyberspace information belonging to personal secrets, family secrets, and private life contrary to the law; intentionally listening to, illegally recording conversations conversation; other acts of intentionally infringing on state secrets, business secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life). Other acts (including appropriating property; organizing gambling, online gambling; theft of international telecommunications charges on the internet; piracy and intellectual property infringement intellectual property in cyberspace; forging websites of agencies, organizations and individuals; forging, circulating, stealing, trading, illegally collecting and exchanging credit card and account information other people's banking; issuing, providing, using illegal means of payment; propagating, advertising, trading in goods and services on the banned list as prescribed by law; guiding others commit illegal acts; other acts of using cyberspace to violate the law on national security, social order and safety. deceive, entice, train and train people to oppose the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distort history, deny revolutionary achievements, undermine the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insult religion , gender discrimination, p racial salutations; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals; prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security. Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means. Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures. Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. …

At the same time, the Cybersecurity Law also clearly stipulates the responsibilities and authority of information system owners, specialized network security forces and competent agencies, together with online service providers. telecommunications, internet and value-added services, organizations and individuals draft, post, and distribute information in cyberspace in management, prevention, detection, blocking, and removal. remove only information on the internet with prohibited content as above…

Thus, in general, the provisions in the content of the Cybersecurity Law of Vietnam are necessary and follow the general trend in the world on legal regulations to ensure network security; meet practical requirements to proactively prevent, detect, prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security, ensuring that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, order and safety. society, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; special, unobstructed make the internet freedom and freedom of speech healthy and protected by law of the people in Vietnam.

However, in order to prevent misrepresentation and misunderstanding, to distort the positive meaning of the Cybersecurity Law, to avoid abuse and to help better awareness and compliance with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, agencies Authorities need to further specify and clarify some definitions and levels of sanctions, procedures and coordination mechanisms to deal with prohibited acts in the production, circulation, storage and use of information on the Internet. cyberspace. In particular, it is necessary to be transparent and concretize a number of new and sensitive violations of concepts and criteria, such as: ""False information causes confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities society, causing difficulties to the operation of state agencies or official duty performers; information that distorts history, denies revolutionary achievements; undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation…”.

At the same time, according to their functions and management decentralization, Government agencies should actively continue to review and perfect the legal system related to information security; improve the capacity, effectiveness, responsibility and coordination of information and information management; well implement the regulations on spokesman and spokesman, periodically, fully publicize and update the system of official information according to the State's regulations and integration requirements; ensure the accountability of the statutory head; to step up activities of building and implementing, comprehensively examining and evaluating national standards and certifying conformity with standards on security assurance, a system of regulations and processes to ensure information security in space. national network and communication; detecting, preventing incidents, overcoming weaknesses and security holes of the national information system and ensuring information security and safety at economic, financial and monetary agencies and organizations currency, investment; organizing scientific research, solutions, technology, testing, application, production and supply of the national cyber security assurance system; attracting, educating, fostering and rewarding high-quality human resources in information technology and cybersecurity experts performing the task of ensuring national cyber security.

Business enterprises and organizations need to attach importance to communication work, proactively providing information on internal portals and to the press, not only good information, but also unfavorable information should be provided. transparency and publicity to varying degrees, avoiding speculation that causes misunderstandings or misinterpretations in social media and the public. Actively grasp, adapt and change in time with new technology trends, reshaping business and governance models; upgrade the backup data center, improve the capacity to handle the challenges of information security and network security, effectively deal with high-tech crimes...

Press agencies and media managers should promote social responsibility in communication activities; comply with press laws and regulations relating to national information and information secrecy; proactively and promptly provide accurate, transparent, selective and deliberate information, both meeting market demand and professional and professional quality, having the right orientation and creating consensus, unity in public opinion. At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the responsibility to actively coordinate in identifying and removing information with false, malicious, and cognitive interference in cyberspace; improve professionalism and be careful in using technical terms and article headlines, avoiding easy comments, greedy for sensational headlines, using strong language to attract readers, but disregarding quality information (especially unverified information) and expertise, unintentionally or intentionally falsifying information and personal gain. Promote widespread propaganda and strengthen sanctions for acts of providing, storing and using information to distort, slander, offend reputation and damage honor, dignity and interests. legitimacy of the State, organizations and individuals... To step up the application of information technology in professional communication activities and strengthen the assurance of security and safety of internal network information; proactively develop scenarios to deal with communication crises and technical problems, proactively take measures to prevent and overcome risks of insecurity and safety, protect state and agency secrets, improve provide ""firewalls"" and update and modernize security devices, software and technical tools to prevent and restrict access to information areas managed by the State upon request; ensure modern equipment for the agency specialized in ensuring national cyber security and strengthen the capacity to inspect, examine and evaluate the security assurance of information systems important to national security. for the common sustainable development of the country"	
"Currently, there are many different conceptions and approaches to cyberspace, also known as virtual space. This is an artificial environment, people do not directly meet, but can exchange information and communicate with each other through a network system, which is globally connected - global network, on public infrastructure. Information technology is interdependent across countries, regions, regions and globally. Clause 3, Article 1 of the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity of our country defines: “Cyberspace is the connecting network of information technology infrastructure, including telecommunications networks, internet networks, computer networks, information processing and control system, database; is a place where people perform social behaviors that are not limited by space and time”.

Research on cyberspace and the network environment in our country shows that these two concepts are very close to each other. Clause 3, Article 4 of the Law on Information Technology 2006 defines: “Network environment is the environment in which information is provided, transmitted, collected, processed, stored and exchanged through the infrastructure. information layer”. “Information infrastructure is a system of equipment serving the production, transmission, collection, processing, storage and exchange of digital information, including telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, etc. computers and databases” (Clause 4, Article 4, Law on Information Technology).

Thus, cyberspace or network environment are different, but essentially the same because they are all virtual spaces where people can communicate, connect, exchange and communicate with each other. The development of cyberspace (cyber environment) depends on the information infrastructure in each country. Currently, in Vietnam in particular, in the world in general, cyberspace is very large, the network system being used includes: web browsers (Google, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Safari...) ; news websites (VnExpress, News, Zing news, VTC News...); social networks (Facebook, Twitter, YuMe, Instagram, Zing me, Youtube, Skype, WeChat, Google Plus, Go.vn...); search, lookup (Google map, Bing, Google Docs...); utilities (money transfer, employment, email, e-card...); Website for buying, selling, doing business, learning, music, entertainment1.

2. Rights, obligations, responsibilities and restrictions on rights of individuals and citizens in cyberspace

Citizens' rights in cyberspace. The network environment is a large space where individuals, citizens and any agency or organization can freely express their opinions, connect and exchange with each other. That is the freedom of the individual: freedom of speech, freedom of information (freedom to seek, receive and exchange information) in the network environment. This is the basic freedom of citizens, which is respected and protected by international law, the Constitution and Vietnamese law.

Article 11, of the 2016 Press Law stipulates the right to freedom of expression in the press (paper press, video press, audio press, electronic press - cyberspace). These rights of citizens include: (1). Expressing opinions on the situation of the country and the world; (2). Participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; (3). To give comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for Party organizations, state agencies, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, and organizations. social organizations, socio-professional organizations and other organizations and individuals.

Similar to citizens' freedom to express their views and opinions in cyberspace, citizens have the right to access information from the network environment itself. The Law on Access to Information stipulates that citizens have the right to be provided with complete, accurate and timely information; complaints, lawsuits and denunciations of violations of the law on access to information. The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that one of the principles of cybersecurity protection is to ""ensure human rights and citizens' rights, and create conditions for agencies, organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace"" (Clause 3. , Article 4, Law on Cybersecurity).

Thus, with the current legal corridor, individuals and citizens have the right to freely use cyberspace for personal benefits; have the right to have their rights and freedoms protected from public authorities and to actively exercise (practice) their personal freedoms in cyberspace.

Obligations and responsibilities of citizens in cyberspace. In accordance with international standards, each individual and citizen, while using and exercising their rights and freedoms, must have obligations and responsibilities towards the community, society, the nation and people. the tribe in which I live. That is, when using and exercising personal rights and freedoms, they must not affect or infringe on national security; public order, social ethics; the rights and freedoms of others. This issue according to international standards is called limiting human rights to ensure for the common good of society, for the public interest in a democratic society; for reasons of national defense, national security, public order, social morality, and the rights and freedoms of others.

Concretizing the principle of restricting the exercise of individual rights and freedoms, the Law on Cybersecurity and other relevant laws has beenregulated by prohibited acts. In particular, the Cybersecurity Law stipulates 6 groups of prohibited acts (Article 8) including:

Firstly: - Using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety, including: (1). Posting and disseminating information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (defined in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity) and acts of cyber espionage; infringing on state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace (specified in Clause 1, Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity); (2). Appropriation of property; organizing gambling, gambling via the internet; theft of international telecommunications charges on the internet; piracy and intellectual property in cyberspace; (3). Forging websites of agencies, organizations or individuals; forging, circulating, stealing, trading, illegally collecting and exchanging information about credit cards and bank accounts of others; illegally issuing, providing, using payment means; (4). Propaganda, advertisement, purchase and sale of goods and services on the banned list as prescribed by law; (5). Instructing others to commit illegal acts; (6). Other acts of using cyberspace, information technology or electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety;

- Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;

- Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and race;

- Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other agencies, organizations and individuals;

- Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community;

- Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes.

Second: Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security.

Third: Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, internet, computer networks, information systems, processing systems management and control of information and electronic means; spreading computer programs that harm the operation of telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means; illegally infiltrating telecommunications networks, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases and electronic means of others.

Fourth: Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures.

Fifth: Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies and organizations, personally or for personal gain.

Sixth: Other acts violating the provisions of this Law.

3. International law on human rights

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 and two international conventions on human rights in 1966 (Civil and Political Rights Convention - ICCPR; International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights - ICCPR - International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) ICESCR), together with additional protocols to form the International Code of Human Rights - is the foundation of the current international legal system on human rights. Article 2 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates that ""human rights shall not be discriminated against on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, origin or origin. , social status…” 2. At the same time, the obligations and responsibilities of individuals are defined: “1. Everyone has obligations to the community which is the only place in which their own personalities can develop freely and fully. 2. In the enjoyment of his rights and freedoms, everyone is subject only to such limitations as are established by law, in order to ensure due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others, and as to meet the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society”.

From the principles of rights and obligations and responsibilities stated in the Declaration, the two 1966 Conventions have developed and concretized with specific provisions in the direction of determining which rights must be exercised immediately. These are rights that require the state to guarantee immediate implementation. Because that is the boundary, the ""threshold"" of having or not having human rights - q"	
"Always serious about human rights

At the information workshop on the Master Plan for the Implementation of the Recommendations of the Third Period Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights (UPR), which Vietnam has accepted, held in Hanoi on September 4, Mr. Tran Chi Thanh, Deputy Director of the Department of International Organizations, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that throughout all 3 UPR cycles over the past 10 years, Vietnam has always seriously participated in UPR cycles and fully implemented the UPR cycle. recommendations accepted by Vietnam. Joining the UPR mechanism, Vietnam not only demonstrates the role and responsibilities of a member state of the United Nations (UN), but also takes advantage of this mechanism to inform the international community on policies, laws, and regulations. Vietnam's achievements on human rights; affirming Vietnam's commitment and learning from international friends' experiences to better protect and promote human rights, improve all aspects of life for people, especially vulnerable groups. damage.

In the process of joining UPR, Vietnam also has effective ways and initiatives; typically the development of master plans to implement the recommendations that Vietnam has accepted. In 2019, Vietnam approved 241 out of 291 recommendations made by countries, reaching a rate of nearly 83%, including important and comprehensive contents of the work of ensuring human rights, especially the improvement of the legal system, measures to ensure civil and political rights, as well as economic, social and cultural rights, and strengthening of institutions to protect human rights and new issues raised on migration, climate change, environment and sustainable development.

Cyberspace is not a place without the law.
Representatives of countries and many international organizations and non-governmental organizations welcomed efforts to ensure human rights in Vietnam; recognizing Vietnam's achievements in judicial reform, perfecting the law on human rights, making continuous efforts to improve people's living standards, ensuring social security, and rights of vulnerable groups. , respond to the impacts of climate change, improve access to public services, ensure the right to freedom, religious belief, right of access to information, etc. Many countries also highly appreciate Vietnam's serious participation. Nam in the UPR process in general and the consideration and approval of recommendations in particular, especially there are master plans to implement the recommendations.


Transparent implementation plan

Talking more specifically about the implementation of the commitment to develop information, journalism, and Internet space, Mr. Dinh Tien Dung, Deputy Director of the Department of External Information, the Ministry of Information and Communications, said that Vietnam is still continuing. continue to research, build and perfect the legal system in order to ensure the rights to freedom of speech, expression of opinions, and freedom of the Internet in accordance with the international human rights obligations that Vietnam has committed; step up efforts to ensure the right to freedom of speech, expression and access to information on the basis of the 2013 Constitution and relevant legal documents; strengthen measures to ensure the safety of journalists.

As of November 30, 2019, Vietnam has 850 press agencies with over 1,000 publications, of which 179 are printed press agencies (83 central newspapers, 96 local newspapers with 116 electronic publications). ), 648 printed magazines (543 central journals, 105 local journals with 52 electronic journals), 23 independent electronic press agencies, including 16 newspapers, 07 electronic magazines death; 01 national news agency; 67 radio and television stations (02 national stations are Vietnam Television, Voice of Vietnam; VTC Digital Television; 64 local stations) Central and local with a total of 183 program channels broadcast radio and television (including: 106 channels of broadcast television programs, 77 channels of radio and broadcast programs). The number of commune-level radio stations is 9,637 (including 2,711 wired stations, 5,893 FM wireless stations, 961 both wired and wireless FM stations). Radio coverage area reaches 99.5% of the territory, terrestrial television coverage area reaches more than 98% of the territory. The number of Internet users is about 64 million people, the number of Vietnamese accounts using social networks (MXH) is nearly 80 million, of which there are about 73 million accounts using Vietnamese social networks such as: Zalo, Mocha, Gapo (with respectively, the number is nearly 52 million; 8.7 million; nearly 3 million; the rest about 10 million belongs to other social networks).

Over the past years, Vietnam has also had a strong development in all aspects, better ensuring human rights from civil, political, economic, social, cultural and educational rights... Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of access to information, expression of opinions, connection and sharing of views and ideas in Vietnam are guaranteed in practice more and more.

Raising people's awareness about human rights, especially in cyberspace, is also being focused on in Vietnam.

“Currently, the Ministry of Information and Communications, with the function of state management, has been actively researching, building and perfecting a system of legal documents that are suitable for practice, contributing to further ensuring the safety of the public. People's rights in the digital technology era, such as advising and submitting to the Government for promulgation, amendment and supplementation of a number of documents, including: National plan on development and management of press up to 2025; strengthen the prevention of malicious information, violate the law, ensure a healthy information environment in cyberspace; perfecting and supplementing regulations protecting the legal working rights of reporters; protect personal information and support children to interact creatively and healthily in cyberspace,"" said Mr. Dinh Tien Dung.

Besides, Vietnam also has many specific measures to ensure people's rights in civil, political, economic, socio-cultural fields; narrowing the information enjoyment gap between regions across the country. Statistics show that Vietnam's postal and telecommunications network continues to be modernized and widely developed. There are 12,738 public postal service points nationwide with various types of postal services, combined with public administration. Mobile network covers 99.7% of the population, of which 3G and 4G networks serve 98% of the population.

In April 2019, a 5G BTS station with a connection speed of 600 - 700Mbps - equivalent to the speed provided to customers of Verizon's 5G network (USA) was deployed in Hoan Kiem Lake area (Hanoi), making Vietnam one of the earliest 5G test countries in the world. Up to the present time, the number of Internet users in Vietnam is 66,281,760; The number of Internet users per 100 people is 68.70. Number of households with Internet connection is 19,158,310; number of households with Internet connection/100 households is: 71.30. The Vietnam Fund for Public Utilities Telecommunication Services (Ministry of Information and Communications) has supported ethnic minorities to access the Internet in remote and isolated areas through indirect support at schools and hospitals with the number up to the current time is: 5,435 points.

Obviously, the level of Internet coverage as well as ensuring that people in all regions have access to online information have been interested and facilitated by Vietnam. But cyberspace is a complicated place and not a place without the rule of law. Therefore, raising people's awareness about human rights and propagating knowledge about human rights, especially in cyberspace, are also being widely deployed in Vietnam. The purpose is to help people know how to protect their own rights and freedoms, and at the same time respect the rights and freedoms of others in accordance with the requirements and requirements of international law and standards. national human rights law. Mr. Dinh Tien Dung affirmed that, up to now, Vietnam is implementing relatively on schedule and fully implementing the recommendations received and has partly raised the awareness and responsibility for Internet and network users. society.

Vietnam is currently one of the countries in the world that is implementing the Law on Cybersecurity. After nearly two years of taking effect, the regulations on ensuring information security in cyberspace of Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law have come into life, contributing to the healthy information in the virtual world. create good interaction in many aspects of social life. Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law insists on a principled issue that operators, service providers, and service operators, especially businesses providing cross-border services, must be responsible for complying with the law. Vietnam, respecting Vietnam's sovereignty, interests and national security. This is completely consistent with international human rights law because even international law has provisions regulating human rights including: absolute rights, relative rights and restricted rights."	
"The rights of individuals according to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law

With the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are protected when participating in cyberspace activities against bad, toxic information, infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, activities, etc. cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their legitimate rights and interests.

With the scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safer and healthier than before, minimizing factors and risks. opportunities to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: having personal information stolen; being deceived, appropriating property; being slandered, humiliated, attacked and defamed; restrict malicious code; gradually eliminate acts of gambling, betting, propagating depraved cultural products, inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace…; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.

Individuals are entitled to participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training.

At the same time, with the Law on Cybersecurity, individuals are also given tools to protect their interests. Specifically, Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing, remove information that violates the law, as well as request the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests.

Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. Article 18 of the Law on Cybersecurity helps protect people from cybercriminal activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts, etc. Article 19, Cybersecurity Law gives tools to protect protect citizens from cyberattacks, such as malicious code distribution, denial of service attacks, etc.

Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity ""reinforces"" tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and other Internet services. Additional services on cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for eliminating the sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these subjects. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data.

Children are especially protected in cyberspace. The contents of child protection in cyberspace are specified in Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity. In particular, it requires information system owners, enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace, agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, people care and other individuals responsible for the protection of children when children participate in cyberspace; requesting the specialized cyber security force to apply necessary measures to protect children's rights in cyberspace.

Also according to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are protected by the specialized network security force when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the specialized force is empowered to implement security protection measures. necessary cybersecurity (Article 5), to help this force operate more effectively and efficiently, which means it will protect national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of the organization, more effective individuals.

The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to important for the formation of a safe and healthy cyberspace."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that prohibited acts are acts that are harmful to the regime and state of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity of the Fatherland, and national security. family, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. These acts are regulated in the Penal Code; Most of them are illegal acts that have been regulated and referenced from real life to cyberspace, some acts are also regulated by a number of legal documents of other countries. Therefore, there is no basis to think that the prohibited acts in the Cybersecurity Law are ""violating human rights"", ""strangling freedom of democracy and freedom of expression"".


      - The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain any provisions that prevent or infringe upon citizens' freedom of expression. The activities of communication, exchange, posting, sharing information, buying and selling, doing business, commerce... still take place normally in cyberspace, are not prevented or prohibited as long as the activities are not restricted. that does not violate the law of Vietnam. Citizens can do anything in cyberspace that is not prohibited by Vietnamese law. On the contrary, in Chapter 3 of the Cybersecurity Law on prevention and handling of acts of infringing upon network security, there are provisions to protect free speech activities, legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individuals when buying, selling, doing business, exchanging and trading in cyberspace.


       - Law on Cybersecurity does not disclose personal information of users. In contrast, personal information is strictly protected by the Cybersecurity Law. According to the provisions of Article 17, relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals are responsible for protecting business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life on the Internet. cyberspace. Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled. The law also stipulates that for the specialized force to protect network security, if abusing or disclosing users' personal information will be handled in accordance with the law.


       - The Law on Cybersecurity does not control all personal information of users. Only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cybersecurity, the Law on Cybersecurity requires enterprises to provide personal information related to such violations. The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures, approved by competent authorities. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.


       - The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google, Youtube, etc. Vietnamese people are still free to access the websites of Facebook, Google, Youtube or any other social networking sites in Vietnam. domestically and internationally. In contrast, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates cybersecurity protection measures for people when participating in activities on social networking sites. However, anyone who uses any social networking site to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law.


       Currently, the situation of fraud and crime in cyberspace is becoming more and more common and serious; activities contrary to fine customs and traditions, video clips with depraved content are propagated and distributed in cyberspace..., affecting cultural and spiritual life and causing damage in many aspects to life. people, even threatening the interests of the nation and nation. The Law on Cybersecurity was born as one of the legal bases to ensure human rights, legitimate rights and interests of citizens, organizations and individuals participating in activities in the network environment. This is also a legal weapon to prevent and handle acts of taking advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of citizens, organizations and individuals. core."	
"Our country is dealing with tens of thousands of large-scale and high-intensity cyber attacks each year, directly threatening national security and social order and safety, causing heavy economic losses. .

Cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are also used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and illegal gatherings to disrupt security and order. inciting riots, terrorism, overthrowing the people's administration, infringing upon national sovereignty, interests and security. Posting of information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale; Activities using cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety are increasing and complicated, such as gambling, fraud, stealing bank accounts, money laundering, prostitution, drugs...

National capacity and potential in cyber security has not yet had appropriate and timely adjustment policies; The dependence on information technology equipment of foreign origin ... puts urgent requirements on building and forming a network security industry. In addition, the state management of information security and cyber security at ministries, departments, branches and localities still has shortcomings, limitations and lack of synchronization due to the lack of legal documents. no law governs this issue until the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary to meet the urgent requirements of network security protection in the current situation.

When promulgated, the Law on Cybersecurity has high consistency with the current legal system of Vietnam, because cyberspace has covered all areas of social life. Does the Cybersecurity Law directly or indirectly reflect some contents according to 29 articles of the Penal Code; related to the provisions on the protection of human rights in the Constitution, the Penal Code, the Civil Code and other relevant documents; and closely related to the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and its guiding documents.

* The Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated without control and disclosure of citizens' information. Rules:

Only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cybersecurity, the Law on Cybersecurity requires enterprises to provide personal information related to such violations.

The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by competent authorities. approve.

The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.

The relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals must protect business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.

Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled.

If the network security force is to abuse or disclose personal information of users, it will be handled in accordance with the law.

* The Cybersecurity Law does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google, and Youtube. Vietnamese people are still free to access these websites or any other social networking sites at home and abroad.

In contrast, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates network security protection measures for people when participating in activities on social networking sites such as Facebook, Google... However, who uses social networks on or any other social network to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law."	
"There is no denying the benefits that the internet and social networks bring to people's lives in particular and humanity in general. However, besides that, each person, country and nation also has to face significant and complex challenges that the internet and social networks bring, especially in terms of information. Because information on the internet, social networks are difficult to verify and are not limited by space.

From that fact, hostile forces and bad actors have been thoroughly taking advantage of the internet and social networks to infringe on the sovereignty of the national electronic border, spreading false information for dangerous purposes. malicious, despicable, such as: Fraud to appropriate property to mental terrorism - threatening to put personal information and private life online, causing many families to be broken, lives disturbed, even many who still seek death...

Up to now, many countries have considered the internet and social networks as a method of communication between the government and the people, in order to promote the role of the people in management and supervision. The Vietnamese government has been following this trend, building e-government from sensitive areas, for example: Customs to solve daily needs of citizens such as identity verification, household registration. … However, the internet and social networks were once the main means of information for anti-government forces-connecting, mobilizing people to perform acts from ""nonviolence"", ""civil disobedience"" to riot, subversion; calling for foreign intervention to ""protect civilians"", ""defend human rights"" from government repression ... This is the scenario of anti-government forces in the Middle East, North Africa in the so-called """" Jasmine Revolution” (2010-2011).


Illustration/vtv.vn.
In Vietnam, disturbances, infringing on national security, destroying State property, and obstructing law enforcement officials occurred in Binh Thuan, Ho Chi Minh City, etc. under the pretext of opposing the draft law on law. The special zone shows that bad political forces, including foreign countries, have used the internet and social networks to direct thugs, drug addicts, and jobless elements to seek to spread misinformation about This bill is to incite people to take to the streets against the people's government.

Therefore, it is necessary to have a strict sanction for the use of the internet and social networks in order to protect national security, social order and safety in cyberspace. That is why the Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly of Vietnam with high consensus.

However, on the internet and social networks, some people have not carefully studied this law, some bad guys have deliberately misrepresented, demanded the rejection of the Cybersecurity Law with vague reasons, or made inferences with the intention of bad. For example, they believe that the Law on Cybersecurity ""invades privacy""; “infringement on freedom of expression”; ""robbing people's right to use the internet""… Also on this occasion, during the disturbances and infringing upon national security, the bad guys raised slogans demanding the deletion of the Cybersecurity Law. Many Western news agencies also ""support"" with articles and online ""talks"" to spread misinformation, denying the Law on Cybersecurity. In international relations, they believe that the Law on Cybersecurity will violate Vietnam's agreement to join the World Trade Organization (WTO), violate the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). . Some people are worried that big websites like Google and Facebook will ""leave Vietnam"". So is the Cybersecurity Law aimed at infringing on human rights, citizens' rights and restricting international relations - restraining Vietnam's development?

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles. The principles of network security protection are: (1) Complying with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; (2) Under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the unified management of the State; ... (3) Closely combine the task of protecting network security ... ensuring human rights and citizens' rights, creating conditions for organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace…” (Article 4).

The Law on Cybersecurity only stipulates sanctions for using cyberspace to commit acts against the State, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. These are the following activities: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; (2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; (3) False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, etc., infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; (4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions…; (5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes... (6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon sovereignty, interests, national security, order, social security, legitimate rights and interestspressure from organizations or individuals or for self-seeking purposes” (Article 8).

Are the concerns and worries about the Cybersecurity Law violating the WTO, CPTPP agreements and big network enterprises like Google and Facebook going to leave Vietnam? The answer is “no”.

According to the report to the National Assembly, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly of Vietnam said that the basic agreements of the WTO (GATT Agreement, GATS Agreement) that Vietnam joins and the CPTPP Agreement have exception provisions on security. security. Accordingly, Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and services in cyberspace in Vietnam to store important data of service users. in Vietnam - placing a virtual server in Vietnam is completely legal. It is known that so far there have been more than 18 member countries of the WTO (including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, France) requiring network businesses to store data in their territories.

What about big websites like Google, Facebook already present in Vietnam? Vietnam is now a big market. According to incomplete statistics, Vietnam currently has 58 million users, an increase of 5% in the first quarter of 2018 and 16% over the same period in 2017. Advertising services, credit card payments are based on the platform. From these networks is a significant source of income for this company… So far, Vietnam is ranked 7th in the world, Ho Chi Minh City is also in the top 6 cities with the largest number of Facebook users. with 14 million users (1). Thus, in the top 10 countries with the largest number of Facebook users in the world, there are 4 countries in Southeast Asia, including: Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand.

According to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly of Vietnam, currently, Google and Facebook are storing data of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals in data centers located in Hong Kong (China) and Singapore. If the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect, it is feasible for these businesses to transfer and store data to Vietnam.

Thus, in terms of national and national interests, including international relations, the Law on Cybersecurity not only protects and better ensures national independence and national sovereignty (in the electronic space). but also create conditions to better ensure national interests. This is the most important thing for each state in terms of internet, social network is developing like a storm. If individuals and businesses spend a little more money in the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law, they must accept it for the greater and longer-term benefit of the country, after all, it is the benefit of ensuring the security of the country. peace for society, family and for each person.

In terms of rights and interests of individuals, organizations and businesses, the Law on Cybersecurity is completely unrestricted on the rights and interests of the above group of subjects. Because the sanctions of the Cybersecurity Law only apply to criminal acts (through taking advantage of the internet, social networks-Article 8). The Law on Cybersecurity only allows authorities to investigate and clarify the source of malicious information when necessary. However, for those who have been conspiring and planning to take advantage of the internet and social networks to fight against the State of Vietnam or hurt citizens, the Law on Cybersecurity is a strict sanction. .

Thus, for everyone, there is absolutely no such thing as an ""invasion of privacy"" Law on Cybersecurity; “infringement on freedom of expression”; ""robbing people's right to use the internet"" as someone is distorting and denying."	
"The law project is clear, ensuring the consistency in the legal system

The draft Law on Cybersecurity submitted at the fifth session, the XIV National Assembly this time has revised and absorbed many contents compared to the bill submitted at the fourth session, the XIV National Assembly. Specifically, the scope of regulation and the concept of network security have been adjusted more clearly to distinguish it from the scope of regulation of the Law on Cyberinformation Security and the concept of network information security, and at the same time omitted the contents on cyberinformation security in this draft law.

The draft Law on Cybersecurity also concretizes the contents related to the guarantee of human rights and citizens' rights, such as measures to protect network security in Article 5 and the authority to apply protection measures. Cybersecurity in specific laws of Chapter II and Chapter III of the revised draft law. Receiving opinions of the National Assembly deputies, the National Assembly Standing Committee also directed to review specific contents in the draft law to adjust to ensure constitutionality, legitimacy and consistency with the legal system. the law; ensure compliance with international law and international agreements to which Vietnam is a signatory (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic Rights). economic, social and cultural, fundamental WTO agreements).

Right from the name ""Law on Cybersecurity"" is said to be brief, comprehensive and consistent with the governing scope of the draft law. In particular, measures to protect network security must be consistent with the Constitution, meeting the requirements of preventing and handling violations of the law on cyber security. Specifically, in Article 5 of Measures to protect network security, there are 13 clauses, some of which clearly state: ""Request for deletion, access or deletion of illegal or untrue information on the Internet. cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety"", ""Collecting electronic data related to activities infringing upon national security, social order and safety, rights and interests legal rights of organizations and individuals in cyberspace”.

In Article 8 of the Cybersecurity Law project on ""Prohibited acts"" it is also quite clear, complete, logical and easy to understand. In which, there are prohibited items: Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, sabotaging the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against sex and racism; Untrue information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals; instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes…

The law project also shows that there has been consideration of regulations on the competence to appraise, examine, evaluate and monitor network security to ensure feasibility and suitability with the capabilities of the Ministry of Public Security (Article 10). , 12, 13). Besides, the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates many important contents such as: Protection of children in cyberspace (Article 30); prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security (Chapter III); deploying network security protection activities (Chapter IV); ensuring network security protection (Chapter V)...

Protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals

The Cybersecurity Law Project is one of the draft laws attracting the attention of many National Assembly deputies and voters nationwide. Right at the discussion session on this content (May 29), many delegates frankly expressed their views.

Delegate Nguyen Minh Duc (Ho Chi Minh City Delegation) stated: ""Protecting independence and sovereignty, protecting the existence and strength of the people's government, protecting the people's legitimate rights and interests, That is the most important obligation. Therefore, the introduction of the Law on Cybersecurity is an indispensable thing to protect the above purpose together with other legal documents in our legal system. Delegate Nguyen Minh Duc said that he completely agreed with the provisions of the draft Law on Cybersecurity.

Delegate Cao Dinh Thuong (Doan Phu Tho) said: “The recent events related to cybersecurity not only affect a few agencies, organizations and individuals but also the economy. , the country's politics and national interests. The reality taking place in cyberspace has set an urgent requirement for cybersecurity work in protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety. Therefore, along with the process of international integration and development of information technology, I strongly agree with the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity at the fifth session to prevent and respond to threats to cyber security."" .

Sharing the same view on the need to promulgate the Law on Cybersecurity, Lieutenant General Bui Mau Quan, Deputy Director of the General Department of Security, Ministry of Public Security (Doan Hai Duong), said that in a very short time, there were 15,000 calls. cyber attacks on our country's network. But our handling is also very passive, awkward and not very effective. BecauseWe do not have a legal corridor that fully, specifically and clearly regulates illegal acts in cyberspace. The delegate also affirmed that, through the study, there is no overlap between the Law on Cybersecurity and the Law on Cyberinformation Security, because the Law on Cyberinformation Security focuses on ensuring three properties of network information including: : Integrity, Confidentiality, and Availability. Meanwhile, the regulatory scope of the Cybersecurity Law focuses on ensuring security and safety for: National security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals on the Internet. cyberspace...

The draft Law on Cybersecurity also clearly stipulates activities to protect national security, ensure social order and safety in cyberspace, and responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals. What behavior is prohibited in cyberspace? That is the legal basis for organizing preventive measures, fighting to prevent and handle illegal acts in cyberspace...

Discussing a number of contents with concerns about Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 of Article 15 on ""Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam"" Vietnamese Socialist Association; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management"", delegate Nguyen Huu Cau (Doan Nghe An) stated: All online documents collected by the investigative agency must be solicited for expertise. If these documents are related to culture, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism will inspect them, and if they are related to the Department of Information and Communications, the Department will examine them and respond in writing. On the basis of that assessment we can conclude which documents must be specified in Article 15.

Receiving and explaining concerns about the provisions in Article 26 of storing data in Vietnam and having headquarters in Vietnam, Chairman of the National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet said. , not in violation of the world agreement; At the same time, he affirmed that cybersecurity and cyberspace in recent times and in the future are very complicated and increasingly complex. Therefore, the Party, State and Politburo decided to establish the Cyber ​​Command at the Ministry of National Defense. This is a very important issue and the enemy is taking advantage of this against us, so there is no reason for us to let go. The law also clearly stipulates businesses and this data is only related to national defense, related to security, not all, these things serve the country practically."	
"Along with the Law on Cybersecurity, six other laws have been passed, namely the Law on National Defense, the Law on Competition, the Law on Denunciations, the Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Exercise and Sports, the Law on Surveying and Mapping. , Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of 11 laws related to planning.

Let people feel secure to operate online

Talking about the Law on Cybersecurity, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the law-making process had been elaborately and thoroughly prepared, with the participation and comments of ministries, functional branches, and telecommunications businesses. domestic and foreign communications, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon...

The Law on Cybersecurity fully stipulates measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and handle illegal acts, including: Prevention and handling of information In cyberspace, there are contents of propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, inciting riots, disrupting security, disturbing public order, humiliating, slandering, infringing upon economic management order, prevention and control. combating cyber espionage, protecting State secret information, work secrets, personal information in cyberspace...

Along with that is the prevention of cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyberwar as well as prevention and handling of dangerous situations in cyber security, fighting for network security...

The law also requires domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to collect, exploit, analyze and process data. about personal information, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. .

""This is a solid legal corridor so that people can feel secure to trade, do business or operate in cyberspace,"" said Lieutenant General Thuan.

The Cybersecurity Law does not restrict democratic freedoms - Photo 2.
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan - Director of the Cybersecurity Department (Ministry of Public Security) - introduced the Cybersecurity Law 2018 - Photo: D. BINH

Answering more questions from the press, Lieutenant General Hoang Quoc Thuan affirmed: ""The Law on Cybersecurity does not restrict people's democratic freedoms. People will be protected by the State when they do all the things that are not prohibited. prohibited by reference in 29 articles of the Penal Code or other relevant laws"".

Lieutenant General Thuan also said that the drafting committee has been meeting with the Ministry of Justice to prepare to develop a decree guiding the implementation of the law, which is expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister in October 2018 for consideration and promulgation.

Email complaints are still accepted

Presenting the 2018 Law on Denunciations, Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh - Deputy Inspector General of the Government - said that the new law is expected to overcome the limitations and shortcomings of the 2011 Law on Denunciations, which have led to a decrease in effectiveness and efficiency. denunciation settlement, affecting law order and discipline.

The new Law on Denunciations, according to the Deputy Inspector General of the Government, is ""very complete and comprehensive"", clearly stipulating the receipt and handling of denunciations and information about crimes, the rights and obligations of whistleblowers and victims. denunciation, denunciation settler.

The law clearly stipulates that in addition to protecting the whistleblower, the whistleblower's wife, husband, biological father, natural mother, adoptive father, adoptive mother, biological and adopted children are also protected. The scope of protection includes confidentiality of information, working position, employment, life, health, property, honor and dignity.

The Cybersecurity Law does not restrict democratic freedoms - Photo 3.
Mr. Giang Son - Standing Vice Chairman of the President's Office chaired a press conference to announce 7 new laws on the morning of June 28 - Photo: D. BINH

The new law continues to stipulate two forms of denunciation like the old law, which is denunciation by letter and direct denunciation. Explaining why the denunciation has not been received by email, the Deputy Inspector General of the Government said that this form is ""very difficult to verify"" and ""lack of human resources to implement"".

However, Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh affirmed that denunciations via email are still accepted, and agencies receiving information still have to consult, consider and study such denunciations.

The National Defense Law, according to Senior Lieutenant General Le Chiem - Deputy Minister of National Defense, has added explanations for terms such as military, people's war, national defense, information war, disaster, defense of military zones. , civil defense, combining defense with economy, society and economy, society with national defense...

The Law also supplements the provisions that the Hanoi Capital's defense area is an integral part of the national defense to suit the specific nature and tasks of the Hanoi Capital and the Capital Law.

The law also adds provisions on information warfare and cyber warfare measures"	
"Challenges posed to today's network security

The development of cyberspace along with the Fourth Industrial Revolution has brought enormous benefits in socio-economic development, as well as changing awareness, behavior and lifestyle. of human. However, besides the benefits, cyberspace also poses many risks and challenges, directly affecting the sovereignty, national security and social order and safety, the legitimate rights and interests of the people. organizations and individuals. Politically motivated cyber attacks on key information systems of countries are increasing, causing serious economic, defense and security losses. Cybercriminals are increasingly dangerous with many sophisticated and high-tech tricks, using malicious codes that apply artificial intelligence to attack and infiltrate. Cyberspace is becoming a favorable environment for foreign special agencies, individuals and terrorist organizations to contact, recruit forces, raise funds, spread anti-radical ideology, incite hatred hatred and violence.

Protecting national rights, interests and security in cyberspace and responding to new threats from cyberspace has become a global issue, identified as a core and vital content in the process. protection and development in many countries around the world. On that basis, countries have promulgated legal documents and established codes of conduct to regulate behaviors and social relationships in cyberspace, contributing to improving security protection capacity. network and prevent, fight and handle illegal acts in cyberspace. To date, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Cybersecurity Law. In the past 6 years, 23 countries have enacted more than 40 legal documents and sub-laws on cybersecurity. Typically, in September 2018, the US announced its Cybersecurity Strategy, which identified cyber security threats as the top threat to national security; declares readiness to respond with military measures if national cybersecurity is threatened or attacked. In December 2018, Australia enacted the Cybersecurity Law, which, in addition to emphasizing the importance of cybersecurity, also allows authorities to access encrypted data. of network operators.

Vietnam is in the group of countries with the fastest internet development in the world, and cyberspace in our country also presents many risks and challenges affecting national security and public order. society as a whole, namely:

- Enemy and reactionary forces have increased the use of cyberspace to sabotage ideology, sabotage internal affairs, carry out plots of ""peaceful evolution"", cause national conflicts, incite protests and violence. to transform political institutions in Vietnam.

- The problem of fake news, false information, bad news, toxic, damaging the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals is taking place seriously (1).

- Our country's network system is in the group of countries facing large-scale, high-intensity, serious and increasingly dangerous cyberattacks. Our country ranks 20th among the countries in the world where the network system is attacked by malware, 8th among the top 10 countries in the world in terms of local malware infection. From the end of 2015 up to now, 12,360 news sites and web portals with national domain names (.vn) of Vietnam have been attacked by hackers and changed their interfaces, including over 400 news sites and portals. electronic information of state agencies; There were 9,763 news sites attacked by foreign hackers and 2,597 news sites attacked by domestic hackers and groups (accounting for 21%).

- The situation of misappropriating information, revealing state secrets, revealing personal information of internet users is worrying.

- Criminal activities using high technology have increased in number of cases and sophisticated tricks, causing serious damage in many aspects and long-term consequences for society, including criminal activities, such as fraud. , online gambling organization (2).

- State management of cyberspace faces many challenges with new online services, such as online payment, e-commerce, online games, virtual currency business, multi-level business. . At the same time, it raises a number of issues about national security, the risk of payment insecurity, network information security, such as the risk of network information insecurity, which facilitates the enemy to collect information. Intelligence; the risk of tax revenue loss, loss of payment space sovereignty; The situation of unequal competition between enterprises operating in the field of payment, domestic and foreign payment intermediaries creates an ideal environment for criminals using high technology to commit crimes, infringing upon administrative order. economy and social order.

- The training of network security experts is still limited, not meeting the practical requirements set forth.

Therefore, building and perfecting the legal system on cyber security, especially the Law on Cybersecurity, is an extremely urgent requirement. This is the baseimportant pressure in preventing, fighting and handling illegal activities in cyberspace, protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; creating a legal corridor to improve the protection of information systems important to national security, contributing to ensuring sovereignty, security and order and building a safe and healthy environment in cyberspace. .

Basic contents of the Law on Cybersecurity

Meeting the above practical requirements, the Law on Cybersecurity of Vietnam was passed by the XIV National Assembly at the 5th Session, with the rate of 86.86%, including 7 chapters and 43 articles, providing basic contents on security issues. protecting the network security for the national security information system; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. Detail:

First, stipulate the basic concepts and policies of the State on network security; principles and measures to protect cybersecurity and national cyberspace; international cooperation on cybersecurity; prohibited acts on network security; handle violations of the law on network security. This is the basis for determining the scope of struggle, measures to be applied, violations and ways to prevent and handle these acts as well as conduct research and perfect the theory of security. network.

Second, fully regulate network security protection activities for information systems important for national security. With the regulations on appraisal, inspection, assessment of conditions, response and remediation of cybersecurity incidents specified in Chapter II, the important national security information system is closely protected from inside. With measures to protect network security, deal with acts of cyberattack, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, appropriation of information belonging to state secrets, acts against and destroying the State are prescribed in Chapter 2 of this Decree. I, Chapter III, important national security information systems are protected from the outside. This is an important legal basis, demonstrating protection commensurate with the role of the national security information system.

Third, provide regulations to create a legal foundation in preventing, detecting, fighting and handling violations of the law, affecting national security, social order and safety, human rights and social security. and legitimate interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, such as drafting and posting information on cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security, disrupting public order, humiliating or slandering; infringing upon the economic management order; using cyberspace for cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, appropriation of state secrets, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace; using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to commit acts of violating the law on security and order; This is a solid legal corridor for people to make friends, exchange, trade, do business or operate in cyberspace.

Fourth, focus on regulations on deploying cybersecurity protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, focusing on state agencies and political organizations, clearly stipulating the contents of deployment and inspection of network security for information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyberspace infrastructure, international network gateway are also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations and the synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of others will be dealt with severely; Cybersecurity violations will be detected and warned in a timely manner. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space The network is also regulated in detail, which is an important legal foundation for implementing current and future cybersecurity work.

Fifth, create an important legal basis to implement the State's policy on the protection of personal data and national data in cyberspace. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam that collect, exploit, analyze and process data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected Service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government of Vietnam. This is an important legal basis to improve the efficiency of state management, fight against crime in the face of complicated developments in cross-border service provision, e-commerce, money business. virtual, electronic money"	
"Secondly, clearly state the measures to protect ANM, such as: appraisal, assessment of conditions, inspection, monitoring, response, troubleshooting, fight to protect ANM; use cryptography to protect network information, prevent, request to stop providing network information; suspending, temporarily suspending the establishment, provision and use of public telecommunications networks, private telecommunications networks, the internet, the manufacture and use of radio transmitters, receivers and transceivers in accordance with regulations. under the law; request the deletion, access or deletion of illegal or untrue information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety; collect electronic data related to activities that infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace; blockade and limit the operation of the information system; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name in accordance with the law; prosecute, investigate, prosecute, adjudicate, apply preventive measures, coercive measures, measures to collect evidence in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code and other measures as prescribed by law. the law on national security, the law on handling of administrative violations.
Protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals
According to lawyer Hau, in addition to the above contents, the Law on ANM also clearly stipulates prohibited acts related to ANM, such as using cyberspace to draft, post, and distribute information that is relevant to ANM. content of propaganda against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (Propaganda that distorts and defames the people's administration; Psychological warfare, inciting wars of aggression, division, and hatred among ethnic groups, religions and people people of different countries; insulting the nation, national flag, emblem, national anthem, great man, leader, celebrity, national hero).
Besides the above-mentioned prohibited acts, there are also other prohibited acts, including: Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, manipulating, training, training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Inciting riots, disrupting security or disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the order of economic management. False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the public. laws of other organizations and individuals. Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health.
In addition, the ANM Law also prohibits acts of conducting cyber war, cyber attack, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing malfunction or sabotage of important national security information systems. Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of computer networks and telecommunications networks; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means. ""In short, the ANM Law aims to protect national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals when using the internet,"" said lawyer Nguyen Van Hau."	
"On the afternoon of June 15, at the press conference, the reporter asked, how will the Law on Special Zones be consulted, will it be implemented like the Land Law? According to General Secretary of the National Assembly Nguyen Hanh Phuc, voters, people, experts and scientists also have many opinions on this bill. The National Assembly has decided to delay the passage of the law to have more time to study and complete the bill and will continue to review it here.

""As for collecting opinions, I think it's not enough to organize people's opinions like the Land Law but can absorb all of the past feedback, which is also appropriate,"" said Mr. Phuc.

Regarding the Law on Cybersecurity, Mr. Phuc said that after being exchanged and received feedback from experts, voters and the National Assembly, there were verification agencies and project submission agencies. Once the law is fully absorbed, it will be passed with a high approval rate. Some people wonder that the passed law affecting the people is not, but the law is enacted to protect the interests of businesses and people.

Regarding this, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong - Standing member of the National Defense - Security Committee said that during the process of verifying and helping the Standing Committee of the National Assembly to revise the law on Cybersecurity, the National Defense and Security Committee listened carefully to opinions. voters and experts, especially representatives of some countries and the press.

According to him, cybersecurity is a global challenge. “As for the idea that the law will affect online service providers, we confirm that this is absolutely not the case. The law creates a legal mechanism to protect the legitimate rights and interests of domestic and foreign organizations, individuals and businesses,” said Mr. Hong.

Regarding the question of whether Google and Facebook will leave Vietnam, the two corporations have not yet commented on the law officially. ""By the way, we also want the press to spread more widely the official information about the bill to the people,"" said Mr. Hong."	
"According to the explanatory report of the National Assembly Standing Committee, cyberspace has far-reaching impacts in all aspects of social life. Acts in cyberspace can infringe on all subjects and objects such as independence, sovereignty, national security, social order and safety, State secrets, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. organizations and individuals. The scope of regulation of the Law includes all contents related to cyber security in the field of national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. Organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safe and healthy, minimizing factors and risks of infringing upon the organization's legitimate rights and interests. personal information such as theft of personal information, fraud, appropriation of property, slander, humiliation, attack, libel...

According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center, in the first 5 months of 2018, Vietnam had more than 4,035 cyberattack incidents, with more than 600,000 computers infected with malicious code, ranking 4th out of 10 countries affected. controlled by a ghost computer network. Many cyber attacks target government websites, financial systems, banks, and critical information infrastructure with the aim of destroying or stealing information. In particular, the activities of attacking and illegally infiltrating computer networks of banks, credit institutions and airports are increasing. “If the server systems of national airlines, financial systems, banks, and portals of the Party and Government are attacked, hijacked or sabotaged, what will be the consequences? any? Therefore, the Law on Cybersecurity was born to meet the urgent requirements and requirements of practice,"" emphasized delegate Bui Mau Quan (Hai Duong).

Delegate Nguyen Ngoc Nghia (Thua Thien Hue) said: ""Citizens' rights are established by the Constitution, people are not affected or monitored for their activities in cyberspace, do not go into personal privacy rights. , there are no barriers for businesses”...

Through discussions with deputies on the sidelines of the National Assembly, all opinions were that, in the trend of international integration and globalization, the construction of a legal corridor to protect the people's ownership, work Foreign affairs and investment attraction are paid special attention by the Party and State. Delegate Thao Xuan Sung (Ha Giang) said that the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity will play an important legal role so that people, businesses and foreign partners can receive key information. accurate, avoiding information interference, which easily leads to disorientation. In particular, helping Vietnam have a good environment to attract investment, carry out activities to build and protect the country.
One of the content that has received special attention from the public in recent days is the regulation ""Storage in Vietnam for personal information of users in Vietnam and important data related to national security"". ; headquartered or representative office in Vietnam” at Point d, Clause 2, Article 26. According to Chairman of the National Assembly's National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet, the application of security exceptions provisions in this Law is absolutely necessary, protecting the interests of the people and national security. Vietnam has the right to require domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam to store in Vietnam their important data. service users in Vietnam. At the same time, it is required that foreign enterprises participating in these activities must have their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam.

The State's policy on cybersecurity, the Law stipulates: Prioritize the protection of network security in national defense, security, socio-economic development, science, technology and foreign affairs. Building a healthy cyberspace that does not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals; to prioritize investment in research and development of science and technology to protect network security; handle threats to network security; research and develop technologies, products, services and applications to protect network security."	
"When the people who invented the Internet, digital, information in cyberspace… would not have been able to imagine its terrible power. With the explosive development of breakthrough technologies such as artificial intelligence, Internet of things, quantum computers, cloud computing, big data systems, fast data systems... has transformed the space. Internet has become an indispensable component, profoundly changing both the quality and quantity of life as well as in the development, prosperity and decline of each country and the world.

This is an area that is expected to bring unprecedented benefits to human society, but also create enormous potential risks to the security of each country and individual people.

And, today - said the new Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung, cyberspace is no longer virtual but real. In the real life of society, there are things like that in cyberspace, and there are even new developments and variations that have not been fully calculated.

The state is governed by law. All problems in the social life of a country need to be regulated by law. It is not only a management tool but also a standard to ensure the rights and obligations of all subjects.

Therefore, with such an important field (Vietnam is a country with a strong development in information technology, a large number of Internet users, and many very complicated phenomena in cyberspace), the State banning Law enforcement to manage is very normal and necessary.

In fact, many countries and international alliance organizations are well aware of the threats to cyber security, considering this a new challenge, a new threat of high importance and danger. promulgated laws and sub-law documents to create institutions and legal bases against threats to national security from cyberspace (USA, UK, Germany, Netherlands, France, Canada) , Korea, NATO, EU… and more than 80 other countries); Even countries and organizations have established specialized forces on cybersecurity, cyber intelligence, cyber warfare, and prevention of cyber-terrorism and cybercrime... So, why when drafting and promulgating the Law Cybersecurity has opponents, even inciting protests. Who are they?

First of all, those who oppose the Law on Cybersecurity most fiercely are hostile and reactionary forces. These subjects, regardless of any political or legal event in Vietnam, always find ways to distort, distort, defame, provoke because of the motive, the clear purpose is to oppose the work. build and defend the country.

In particular, cyberspace is an extremely favorable environment for them to carry out dark schemes due to its rapid, wide spread, difficult to verify and easy to fabricate.

In fact, in recent years, cyberspace and some types of information technology services and applications are being thoroughly exploited by hostile and reactionary forces to carry out conspiracy to sabotage ideology. , ""color revolution"", ""street revolution"", ""peaceful evolution""... aimed at weakening and abolishing the political regime in our country.

Regarding the Cybersecurity Law, they make arguments such as ""against humanity"", ""silence democracy"", ""suppress dissent"", ""lost freedom of speech""... These are the The information is completely fabricated and distorted, with the aim of obstructing or causing panic and suspicion among the people about the Party's guidelines, policies and laws of the State.

The Law on Cybersecurity has no provisions affecting basic human rights enshrined in the Constitution; not only does not obstruct but also protects and creates favorable conditions for the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals; in line with Vietnam's civilized legal values ​​and international commitments. Only acts that are against the country, violate the law, and infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and citizens will be fought and handled.

Another object that opposes the Law is political opportunists, disgruntled, and negative minded. These people often take advantage of issues with conflicting opinions to make negative comments, distort information, confuse information and provoke dissatisfaction of a part of people who are ignorant or lacking in knowledge. information on political and social issues.

They believe that the law ""creates business barriers"", ""increases costs for businesses"", ""adds sublicenses"", ""abuses power"", ""bans the use of facebook, google"", etc. is one of the important purposes. of the Law on Cybersecurity is to protect the maximum legitimate rights and interests of people, agencies and organizations.

In fact, in the past time, the status of posting false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals is rampant in cyberspace; fraudulent activities, organization of prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements; undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion; sabotage pure style , customs of the nation, social ethics, community health; instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes… the developments are very complicated.

However, the management lacks a legal basis, so it leads to many serious consequences and potential risks that threaten the security and safety of the people, and even affect the sovereignty, interests and security of the people. national security such as espionage, terrorism, attack... on the system of databases on defense, security and diplomacy; projects, important national security objectives or important information systems in the fields of energy, finance, banking, telecommunications, transportation, natural resources, environment, chemicals , health, culture, press...

The Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated in order to fight and prevent such serious phenomena and acts; does not create barriers to legitimate activities. The law also has strict regulations on authority and responsibility as well as strict sanctions against violators who belong to the force dedicated to protecting network security.

Many of those who oppose the Law on Cybersecurity do not know or understand anything about network security as well as the content of this law. They do not learn, do not need to know, are not responsible for their behavior. To them, seeing that there are people protesting, ... protesting according to the crowd effect such as the phenomenon of some subjects being arrested in recent times for participating in demonstrations, disturbing public order, and destroying State property. , against people performing official duties because of impulsiveness, being lured and manipulated, many of which are thugs, harassers, drug addicts, have many criminal records, criminal records... Only when arrested, handle them to awaken.

The promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary in the State management of this very important field. The authorities always respectfully listen and accept responsible and constructive comments so that policies and laws can be improved more and more, but also resolutely fight and deal with the problems. acts against the regime, causing social instability. Respecting and obeying the law is the duty and responsibility of every citizen. Be vigilant, not to fall into the trap of bad elements before distorting, instigating, inciting and negative statements, for our own security and safety, and for the stability and development of the country."	
"On October 27, 2015, with 74 votes for and 21 against, the US Senate passed the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Bill (CISA) to create a solid defense system in cyberspace, despite objections from the US Senate. tech giants and security activists.

In fact, in the US, acts that are considered illegal are very clearly stated in the US Code of Conduct, such as identity theft, intrusion into computer systems, intellectual property infringement...
Recently, the federal government has also enacted laws with a number of new regulations on network security, and at the same time amending old regulations to ensure that network security is more secure and strict, such as: Cybersecurity Enhancement Act; Federal Exchange Data Breach Notification Act; Amended National Cybersecurity Protection Act.

The US is rated as the country with the oldest and safest security system in the world, but this country also suffers from cyber attacks. Typically, the case shocked when hackers broke into the system of Equifax, one of the three largest credit agencies in the US in July 2017, stealing personal data of 145 million people, including including important information such as social security numbers
In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law to better protect citizens and businesses in the digital era.

German Cybersecurity Law requires companies and federal agencies to have minimum cyber security standards and to be certified by the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI). Companies must also notify the Office of suspected cyberattacks on their systems.

The law is relevant to sectors deemed national ""critical infrastructure"", such as transportation, healthcare, water, telecommunications providers, as well as financial companies and insurance.

In the new law, there are specific provisions for Internet users, such as the prohibition of plotting to use violence to subvert national security, and the prohibition of instigating criminal acts.

In addition, the new law forces telecommunications providers to warn customers when they are attacked by hackers, providers must store data about access history for up to 6 months for investigation.

European Union (EU): Heavy fines when citizens' data is leaked

With huge ""stores"" of data, on May 9, the European Union (EU) began to enforce the first Cybersecurity Law. Accordingly, businesses that provide ""essential"" services such as water supply, energy, transportation, healthcare and banking, must notify national authorities if they experience a serious cyber attack.
Cloud service providers, search engines and online e-commerce must also report network problems or face hefty fines.

These provisions apply not only to organizations operating within the EU, but also to organizations that process the data of any EU resident. Regardless of physical location, if an EU citizen's data is being processed, existing organizations are subject to this regulation. Fines have also become heavier and can total up to 20 million euros or 4% of annual revenue.
The Cybersecurity Bill was introduced to the Parliament of Singapore on April 1, 2018, allowing the country's Cyber ​​Security Agency to monitor and manage the nation's cyber security.

The Cybersecurity Authority is authorized to take proactive measures to protect critical information infrastructure and rapidly respond to threats and incidents. The Singapore government has listed 11 sectors as critical information infrastructure, including water, healthcare, maritime, telecommunications, information, energy and aviation.

Under the proposed Cybersecurity Bill, when a cyber attack occurs, the Singapore Cybersecurity Authority would be authorized to conduct an investigation and the affected company or entity would have to share the information with the Authority. authorities within a few hours, or they will be fined up to S$100,000 ($72,220) or imprisoned for up to 10 years.

In addition, Singapore also signed a joint statement with Germany to strengthen cybersecurity cooperation between the two countries.

Thailand: Developing strict internet censorship laws

On December 16, 2016, with 167 votes in favor and 5 abstentions, the National Assembly of Thailand unanimously passed the Computer Crime Law.

The Computer Crimes Law stipulates a penalty of up to 5 years in prison for those who upload false information on computer systems in order to undermine national security, public safety, national economic stability or lower public facilities or cause panic.

And one of the special additions in this law is the creation of a five-member committee that can seek court approval to take down content posted online that is found to be infringing."" public morality.""

Thailand's military junta has banned protests, blocked dozens of websites, and used already strict cyber censorship and defamation laws to prosecute those who criticize everything from the comments above. Facebook to investigative reports on human rights abuses.

The Thai government also plans to spend more than 128 million VNDBaht (equivalent to 3 million USD) to equip social network tracking technology. Accordingly, the social network data analysis system will track and store all the data on social networks to analyze and monitor millions of people."	
"The reactionary terrorist organization Viet Tan, along with Reporters Without Borders, have lobbied a number of congressmen in the United States to oppose Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law with reasons they argue such as ""this law restricts freedoms of speech”, “disturbing US businesses”. They also called on congressmen and senators to ask Facebook and Google not to cooperate with Vietnam... Some foreign news stations such as VOA, BBC, RFI... as usual, publish articles according to their voices. ""threats"", ""whole breasts cover your mouth"", exaggerated information. They submitted a letter that was drafted by 17 US congressmen from the Vietnam Caucus Group, which included the following paragraph: “If the Vietnamese government forces your companies to support and censor information, then this is an issue that needs to be addressed. stated through diplomatic channels and at the highest level.”

VIETNAM'S CIRCULAR SECURITY LAW COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL LAW AND PRACTICES

Most of the unbiased opinions on Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law as above come from their own purposes and the unfaithful views of some organizations and individuals who have long sought to distort and oppose the law. Vietnam, including those who always defy reality and truth. In fact, Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law has been carefully researched and built, stemming from practical requirements, not a copy of any country.

The development of the Cybersecurity Law is also interested in implementation by many countries around the world, including the United States. According to the United Nations, up to now, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. In February 2013, then-US President Obama proposed an Executive Order to Improve Key Cybersecurity Infrastructure. In January 2015, Obama signed into law a new Cybersecurity Bill. On May 11, 2017, US President Donald Trump signed a new Executive Order on Cybersecurity, the reactionary terrorist organization Viet Tan together with Reporters Without Borders has mobilized a number of congressmen in the United States to oppose it. Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law with reasons they argued such as ""this law restricts freedom of speech"" and ""obstructs US businesses"". They also called on congressmen and senators to ask Facebook and Google not to cooperate with Vietnam... Some foreign news stations such as VOA, BBC, RFI... as usual, publish articles according to their voices. ""threats"", ""whole breasts cover your mouth"", exaggerated information. They submitted a letter that was drafted by 17 US congressmen from the Vietnam Caucus Group, which included the following paragraph: “If the Vietnamese government forces your companies to support and censor information, then this is an issue that needs to be addressed. stated through diplomatic channels and at the highest level.”

VIETNAM'S CIRCULAR SECURITY LAW COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL LAW AND PRACTICES

Most of the unbiased opinions on Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law as above come from their own purposes and the unfaithful views of some organizations and individuals who have long sought to distort and oppose the law. Vietnam, including those who always defy reality and truth. In fact, Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law has been carefully researched and built, stemming from practical requirements, not a copy of any country.

The development of the Cybersecurity Law is also interested in implementation by many countries around the world, including the United States. According to the United Nations, up to now, 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. In February 2013, then-US President Obama proposed an Executive Order to Improve Key Cybersecurity Infrastructure. In January 2015, Obama signed into law a new Cybersecurity Bill. On May 11, 2017, US President Donald Trump signed a new Executive Order on Cybersecurity.

The National Assembly deputies press the button to vote on the draft Law on Cybersecurity
The National Assembly deputies press the button to vote on the draft Law on Cybersecurity


In fact, there have been a number of provisions in Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law that have been misunderstood and even misrepresented by some, saying that people will no longer be able to use utility services such as Gmail: Gmail. , Facebook, Youtube… But the truth is not like that.

Who evaluates information content as infringing? An individual, department or department of the Ministry of Information and Communications or the Ministry of Public Security? Colonel Nguyen Huu Cau, Director of Nghe An Provincial Public Security, a delegate from the National Assembly of Nghe An emphasized on the National Assembly forum, stating in practice that the information specified in Article 15 has been approved by a competent authority. mechanism, which is solicitation of expertise. Many cases of propaganda against the State or abusing freedom and democracy to infringe upon the interests of the State, organizations and citizens' legitimate interests have strictly followed this regulation. All online documents collected by the investigative agency must be subject to expert examination, so there can be no abuse or arbitrariness.

Regarding the requirement that domestic and foreign enterprises providing online services must store in Vietnam and set up their headquarters or representative office in Vietnam, it is also completely consistent with international practices and laws. . To the Nay, there have been more than 18 member countries of the World Trade Organization (WTO), including the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France, requiring the storage of data within their national territory.

In fact, Facebook and Google have placed thousands of servers at leading telecommunications enterprises in Vietnam, such as by August 2017, Facebook has about 300 servers with a capacity of about 1,900 Gbps; Google has 1,238 servers with a capacity of about 8,158 Gbps… No company has complained that the requirement to store data is to prevent foreign businesses from investing or doing business in Vietnam. Professor Vladimir Kolotov, Saint Petersburg State University (Russia) commented: “The new Cybersecurity Law passed in Vietnam is very necessary. Similar legislation was also passed in Russia and many countries around the world. This act in no way violates or interferes with freedom of expression.”

HANDLING OF VIOLATIONS - MANY COUNTRIES THAN VIETNAM

In Singapore, on January 4, 2018, the Cybersecurity Bill was submitted to the National Assembly, with a focus on increasing the power of the Singapore Cybersecurity Authority (CSA) in management. Accordingly, when a cyber attack occurs, the CSA will be allowed to conduct an investigation and have the right to request a report about the cyber attack ""within a few hours"" or face a fine of up to 100,000 VND. Singapore dollars or imprisonment for up to 10 years.

In Thailand, the Government has planned to spend more than 128 million Baht (equivalent to 3 million USD) to equip social network tracking technology; efforts to lobby the National Assembly of this country to pass a new Cybersecurity bill, which requires internet service providers to remove and block sensitive content and websites when requested. The country has also asked Facebook to block about 300 accounts that post comments and materials that defame the Royal Family and the government.

On June 14, 2018, the German website Time (Zeit) published an article ""Incitement on the Internet: a Federal-wide strike against hate comments"", stating that 20 police units in Berlin and nine other states searched apartments and arrested 29 people for allegedly posting hateful comments on the internet calling for criminal behavior. Violators can be criminally prosecuted with a prison term of up to 5 years.

Germany's cybersecurity law is currently being implemented and strictly adhered to in accordance with European Union (EU) regulations (in May 2016, the EU and the regulators of social networks signed a code of conduct). to combat hate speech online). Accordingly, the managers of Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter and YouTube are committed to preventing the spread of hateful comments on their social networks, 24 hours after receiving the notice to review and delete. statements with potentially hateful content.

Thus, the recommendations of US congressmen and congressmen asking Google and Facebook not to remove information at the request of the Vietnamese government are clearly ""paradoxical"" recommendations, rough interference in the law. of other countries as well as the community criteria of social networking sites. In a number of recent transparency reports, Google said that in the last 6 months of 2017, the US had 16,054 requests from Google to disclose user data, Germany 6,960 requests, UK 3,773 requests, France 5,842 requests... ( see transparencyreport.google.com). Similarly, Facebook's transparency report says that in 2017 the US had 47,127 data requests, Canada had 1,334 requests, Brazil had 1,596 requests, India 1,284 requests... (see transparency.facebook.com page) . Meanwhile, requests to provide user data from Vietnamese authorities are very few, even equal to ""0"".

It is normal and common for state authorities to request data about users when necessary, and it is the US that has the biggest request. So what is the basis for US lawmakers and congressmen to oppose Vietnam putting this legitimate regulation into a law to better manage cybersecurity, for the benefit of the community?

If you look carefully at Clause 2, Article 26 of Vietnam's Law on Cybersecurity, one of the responsibilities of an online service provider is defined: “Authentication of information when a user registers a digital account; secure information and user accounts; provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security. Right now this is a very normal regulation, in line with international practice.

In April 2018, Viet Tan terrorist organization published letters from nearly 50 so-called ""civil society organizations, human rights activists and independent media organizations in Vietnam"" to the President. operating Facebook to protest that this social network removed posts and locked accounts. In a reply, Facebook's Asia-Pacific representative affirmed: ""There are times when we have to remove or block access to content because it violates the laws of a certain country, even though it doesn't violate our community standards. We have a well-defined processing procedure that makes no difference for Vietnam compared to the rest of the world.”

COMPATIBILITY WITH INTERNATIONAL RULES ON WOMEN HUMAN RIGHTS

  According to Dr. Cao Duc Thai, former director of the Institute for Human Rights Research, Ho Chi Minh National Academy of Politics, the Law on Cybersecurity not only does not violate human rights but also strengthens the protection of human rights and citizens' rights. Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity specifically stipulates the protection of information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. This is a specific provision in Clause 1, Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution, according to which, “human rights, civil rights in political, civil, economic, cultural and social fields are recognized and respected. respect, protect and ensure in accordance with the Constitution and the law.” The Law on Cybersecurity also specifically stipulates that the case where the specialized network security force has access to user information is when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security. This provision is consistent with the content of Clause 2, Article 14 of the 2013 Constitution: ""Human rights and citizens' rights can only be restricted according to the provisions of the law in case of necessity for reasons of national defense and security. family, social order, safety, social ethics, community health"". It should be remembered: In order to prevent the exploitation of the universality of human rights to interfere in the internal affairs of countries, the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna (Austria) agreed on the view of human rights. Human rights are both universal (universal) or universal, and at the same time, specific, i.e. characteristics due to historical traditions, customs and cultures in the specified regions or in each country. Human rights are expressed through the specificity and uniqueness of the national legal system. This is reflected in the concentration of “restriction of rights” provisions in certain laws. These restrictions are intended to “protect national security; public order; health or morals, or the rights and freedoms of others”.

Enemy forces often distort the concept of human rights to encourage and incite the recklessness and delusion of a part of internet and social network users, especially young people. They claim that human rights are rights without any restrictions; all acts against the regime in a “peaceful” and “nonviolent” manner are legal; The authorities' suppression of crime is a ""violation of human rights""… These tones, combined with the lack of understanding, make some people misunderstand about human rights, leading to law violations, falling into labor"	
"The Law on Cybersecurity prescribes principles, measures, contents, activities and conditions to ensure the implementation of cybersecurity work; responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals participating in cyberspace and network security protection activities.

The purpose of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity is to perfect the legal basis for network security in the direction of applying synchronous and feasible legal provisions. To bring into play the country's resources for socio-economic development, national defense and security, and contribute to the protection of sovereignty, interests, national security, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. , building a healthy cyber environment...

Misrepresentations of hostile forces and extremists

Although the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units was unanimously voted back by the National Assembly with the rate of 85.63%; The Law on Cybersecurity was carefully reviewed by the National Assembly and approved by the National Assembly with a rate of 86.96%, but hostile and reactionary forces at home and abroad continuously propagate and incite.

The websites of reactionary terrorist organizations that are hostile to Vietnam have published many information distorting the content of law projects, propagating and inciting people to protest. They fabricated and fabricated many documents that were flooded on the internet to spread awareness among gullible people, such as: misrepresenting the 99-year land lease in the draft Law for China only the content being discussed into the content decided by the National Assembly and the Government; falsified a photo of a border marker with the word ""concession"" attached to it, causing anxiety among the people.

The hostile forces distort the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, which was born only to protect the regime, not the people; The introduction of the Cybersecurity Law violated the people's right to freedom of speech and democracy; against the opportunity to access the civilized world of the Vietnamese people…

People's concern and worries about building special zones and promulgating the Cybersecurity Law are completely legitimate. However, due to lack of alertness, many people have acted in violation of the law. Specifically: June 9 - June 11, 2018, in a number of provinces and cities: Binh Thuan, Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi, Khanh Hoa, Binh Duong, Dong Nai with the support of the protest organization Viet Tan movement, extremists have organized marches and demonstrations...

Most seriously, in Binh Thuan province, protesters surrounded and stormed the headquarters of the Provincial People's Committee, burned a number of cars and motorbikes, blocked National Highway 1A, causing injuries to people. police force on duty...

On June 9, 2018, Binh Duong Provincial Police discovered and detained Tran Minh Hue (37 years old, from Thanh Hoa) and Nguyen Dinh Thanh (27 years old, from Nghe An) for printing documents, calling calling people to the streets to protest illegally, disrupting security and order.

At the time of being caught, Hue was spreading leaflets at Song Than Industrial Park, Di An town, Binh Duong province. The police agency has seized thousands of documents calling for people to protest, against the consideration of leasing land as a special economic zone. At the security investigation agency, Hue admitted to following the direction of outside reactionary organizations.

On June 10, 2018, the police of Ho Chi Minh City and some localities seized many banners of workers, workers gathered to march illegally; detain a number of people for the act of enticing people to participate in demonstrations. On June 11, 2018, Binh Thuan Provincial Police temporarily detained 102 people who smashed the headquarters of the Provincial People's Committee and agencies in the area.

The extremists incited people to gather in large numbers, disrupted social order when arrested by the functional forces, showed a very apologetic attitude and confessed that they acted because they had received money from the organizations. foreign office.

Viewpoints of the Party, Government, and National Assembly

The Party, Government and National Assembly highly appreciate the people's interest in comments, discussions, and constitutions, including social criticism of the Party's guidelines, policies, and laws. law of the State.

In the Document of the 11th National Party Congress emphasized: ""The Party respects autonomy, supports all voluntary, active, creative activities and sincerely listens to the contributions of the Front and its unions. The Party and State have mechanisms and policies to create conditions for the Front and mass organizations to operate effectively and perform the role of social supervision and criticism.

The document of the 12th National Congress of our Party continues to affirm: ""The Fatherland Front plays a pivotal role in gathering and mobilizing the people, promoting the patriotic emulation movement, and promoting the great unity of the whole people. people, implement democracy, strengthen social consensus; supervise and criticize society; participate in Party and State building, people's foreign affairs, contributing to the construction and defense of the Fatherland.

Before approving the Law on Special Administrative - Economic Units Van Don, Bac Van Phong, Phu Quoc; The Law on Cybersecurity, the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has published and widely commented. The ideology of the leaders of the Party and the State as well as the content of the Law all show the consistent, do not develop the economy at all costs.

Based on the voters' suggestions, the Government and the National Assembly Standing Committee (UBTVQH), on the morning of June 11, 2018, the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly voted to agree. time delay passed the Law on Special Administrative - Economic Units Van Don, Bac Van Phong and Phu Quoc. Facing the complicated situation of security and order in some localities, National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan called on people to calm down, avoid extreme actions, and trust in the decisions of the Party. Government.

Some missions next time

It is forecasted that in the coming time in Ha Tinh province, reactionary subjects will continue to incite people to oppose the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, the Law on Cybersecurity; taking advantage of a number of obstacles in the settlement of compensation for damage to people in sea areas... to incite people to gather. They will intensify their sabotage activities on many fronts, in many locations; destabilizing the situation of security, order and social safety, potentially causing damage to the economy - society, national defense - security, negatively affecting the ideology and feelings of cadres and party staff and people...

Accordingly, for each cadre, party member and people of all classes, it is necessary to be aware of the content and meaning of the draft Law on Administrative Units and the Law on Cybersecurity. The construction of a special economic zone and the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is an inevitable trend of the world in an integrated and developed economy. Building special economic zones to diversify the economy, create more jobs for people, increase export activities, create innovation, and transfer technology through foreign direct investment (FDI). ... From there, improve the qualifications and skills of workers, increase economic growth, and generate revenue for the State budget.

The draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units shall be submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and comments to apply to all domestic and foreign investors in the three special economic zones. According to the provisions of Vietnamese law, it is only allowed to rent land, not to promulgate the Law to lease it to China, even less to sell land to China as many information has distorted.

People must properly understand the guidelines and guidelines of the Party, policies and laws of the State; clearly understand the direction of the province: will strictly handle organizations and individuals that provoke and entice people to cause social disorder.

It is necessary to realize that patriotism must be based on understanding the law and grasping the nature of the problem. It is necessary to be alert to unverified information on social networks and leaflets... Must be calm, not to take advantage of, incite, abet the forces that oppose the revolution."	
"With the rapid development of science and technology, cyberspace has become an indispensable component and plays an important role in building an information society and developing the knowledge economy. The explosive development of breakthrough technologies such as artificial intelligence, Internet of things, quantum computers, cloud computing, big data systems, fast data systems... Cyberspace has profoundly changed in both quality and quantity, which is expected to bring unprecedented benefits to human society but also create enormous potential dangers. Many countries are well aware of the threats to cyber security, consider this a new challenge, a new threat of high importance and danger, so they have concretized it into policy documents and documents. legal documents such as laws or sub-law documents in more than 80 countries, organizations and international alliances such as the US, UK, Germany, Netherlands, France, Canada, Korea, NATO... to create institutions , the legal basis against threats to national security from cyberspace; establish specialized forces on cyber security, cyber intelligence, cyber warfare, cyber-terrorism and cybercrime prevention. In just the past 6 years, 23 countries around the world have enacted more than 40 legal documents on cybersecurity.
In our country, the strong application and development of information technology in all fields of life has greatly contributed to speeding up the process of industrialization and modernization of the country, economic, cultural and social development. society, improve the quality of health care and education, promote the people's creativity and mastery, and maintain security and national defense. However, there are still shortcomings and limitations in cybersecurity that need to be overcome such as: (1) The national potential for cybersecurity in our country is not strong enough, has not been mobilized and exploited synergy to deal with cyber threats. (2) Cyberspace and some types of information technology services and applications are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to carry out plots to conduct a ""color revolution"", ""street revolution"". "", ""peaceful evolution"" aimed at abolishing the political regime in our country. Posting false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences in terms of human life, morale, even affect sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety. (3) There are more and more large-scale and high-intensity cyber attacks, increasing in severity and danger level, directly threatening national security and social order and safety. Cyber ​​terrorism emerges as a serious threat to national security. Criminal activities in cyberspace are increasing in number of cases and sophisticated tricks causing serious economic damage, affecting ideology, culture and society. (4) Information systems critical to national security have not been identified and protected by adequate measures. Because the content of cybersecurity incidents has not been determined, when dangerous incidents occur, affecting sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, the implementation of response activities, handling and overcoming consequences of relevant authorities is very confused, there is no unified process, the agency responsible for network security protection has not been able to actively implement appropriate measures and plans. . (5) The situation of leaking state secrets through cyberspace is very worrying, many documents belonging to state secrets are published on cyberspace. One of the important reasons leading to this situation is the limited awareness of agencies, businesses and individuals about protecting state secrets in cyberspace, the sense of responsibility of many officials, staff in information security in cyberspace is not high enough, sanctions are not enough deterrent. (6) Dependence on information technology equipment originating from abroad. Cyberspace is widely applied in all areas of social life, however, the dependence on information technology equipment originating from abroad is a potential threat to network security if it occurs. out conflict. In order to avoid being attacked by hackers, information gathering, intelligence activities, some network products and services need to meet certain standards and regulations, especially when these products and services are used by hackers. used in important information systems and national security, cipher and confidential locations, containing state secrets. (7) The system of legal documents on cybersecurity has not been developed, and the current documents do not meet the requirements of preventing, fighting and handling illegal acts of using cyberspace. the law.
 
    The above situation has put our country in danger:
 
    Firstly, the development of social networks makes an important contribution to socio-economic development, but also creates a favorable environment for activities of political impact and transformation and terrorism.
 
    Second, the development of artificial intelligence has been creating remarkable achievements Science and technology are outstanding, playing an increasingly important role in many areas of social life, but are also expected to cause ""catastrophe"" if not strictly controlled.
 
    Third, the increasingly popular internet-connected devices not only bring great benefits to people's lives, socio-economic development, national defense and security assurance, but also can be used. to conduct large-scale cyber attacks.
 
    Fourthly, targeted cyberattacks can not only destroy important national security goals and works, but also appropriate information and secret documents, appropriate to use systems. big data, fast data for political intentions and criminal activities.
 
    In fact, the above risk has posed an urgent requirement to develop and promulgate legal documents on cyber security to prevent, fight and handle acts of using cyberspace to infringe upon national security. social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.
 
    2. Purpose of building the Law on Cybersecurity
 
    - Improve the stable legal basis for network security in the direction of applying legal provisions in a synchronous and feasible manner in practice.
 
    - To bring into play the country's resources to ensure network security, develop the field of cyber security to meet the requirements of socio-economic development, national defense and security, and contribute to improving the quality of life of the people. People and ensure national defense and security.
 
    - Protecting the sovereignty, interests, national security, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, building a healthy cyberspace environment.
 
    - Deploying cybersecurity work nationwide, stepping up monitoring, forecasting, response and rehearsal to respond to cyber security incidents, and protecting information systems important to national security. ; ensure effective state management in this field.
 
    - Improve autonomy in cybersecurity, improve research policies, develop strategies, and share information on network security.
 
    - Expanding international cooperation on cybersecurity on the basis of respect for independence, sovereignty, equality and mutual benefit, in accordance with domestic laws and international treaties to which our country is a signatory.
 
    3. Basic content of the Law on Cybersecurity
 
    The Law on Cybersecurity includes 07 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.
 
    Cybersecurity protection for information systems important to national security is one of the particularly important contents of the Law on Cybersecurity. Fully prescribe protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system, specifying criteria, related fields, and stipulating measures such as security appraisal. network, assess conditions, inspect and monitor security, and respond to and remedy network security incidents for information systems important to national security.
 
    In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted a chapter (Chapter III) to fully stipulate measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. opportunities to threaten, detect and handle violations of the law, including: prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets, and personal information in cyberspace; prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security. This is a solid legal corridor so that people can safely do business, do business or operate in cyberspace.
 
    Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations, regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations, synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of Others will be dealt with severely. Network security research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security"	
"The Law on Cybersecurity from the very beginning sets out provisions that require foreign businesses providing services in cyberspace such as Facebook, Google, etc., to set up servers in Vietnam. Many objections, in which I disagreed when the legislative bodies consulted on this bill. Because the requirement to set up a server in Vietnam is contrary to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Free Trade Agreement (WTO) that our country has joined. \

However, the bill passed by the National Assembly no longer has this provision, only requiring businesses to store user data in Vietnam and have a representative office in Vietnam. Regarding national data storage regulations, there are currently 18 countries (all members of the WTO) that apply the same, including the US, Canada, Russia, France, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Sweden...

On the other hand, in the world, there are 138 countries with Cybersecurity Laws. Along with that, the CPTPP and WTO Agreements that our country participates in have provisions on security exceptions, allowing each country the right to develop regulations to protect national security. Currently, there are 19 countries in the world, including the US, Canada, Australia, Germany ... also have regulations to protect national security, social order and safety. Thus, the National Assembly's adoption of the Law on Cybersecurity does not violate international commitments and our country is not the ""first and only country"" in the world to apply this provision.
In accordance with the law of Vietnam, confidential information of private life is inviolable. No one has the right to obtain information about private life without the consent of these people, unless they violate the prohibition of the law.

Article 26, the Law on Cybersecurity only requires domestic and foreign agencies and organizations, when providing services in cyberspace or owning an information system in Vietnam, to provide user information (for the armed forces). in charge of cybersecurity protection under the Ministry of Public Security) upon written request. Along with the regulatory scope of the Cybersecurity Law as analyzed, this task force is only required (according to a strict process) to provide user information in cases where network users commit acts of violence. prohibited items are specifically listed in Article 8 of this law.

However, in order to be stricter, before the Law on Cybersecurity takes effect (from 2019), the authorities need to develop the authority and process to request the provision of network user information. Along with that are the obligations and responsibilities of agencies and officials who are allowed to access information, protect information confidentiality as well as severe sanctions if information is leaked or disclosed.

According to the lawyer, how will the Law on Cybersecurity help the community and society?

In fact, there are many cases of using the network to stigmatize individuals, attack business rivals, but with current regulations, there are not enough grounds for handling. Although the act of defamation is yes, the damage is there and the victim also has an application for handling, it is very difficult to obtain evidence to determine who intentionally gave such false information. deadlock.

With the Law on Cybersecurity, data on cloud computing will be located in Vietnam and a number of competent authorities are allowed to request and look up this information. specifically for investigation and handling.
Article 26, the Law on Cybersecurity requires service providers in cyberspace or owning information systems in Vietnam to comply with requests of competent authorities in investigating and handling illegal acts. network security law. This is a very important regulation, which will overcome the shortcomings as mentioned, thereby strengthening the evidence to investigate and handle violations."	
"According to the Ministry of Public Security, in recent years, reactionary organizations and opposition numbers at home and abroad have thoroughly taken advantage of cyberspace to carry out propaganda activities, incite protests, and disrupt security. , order and against our Party and State.

Fearing the loss of operational space and failure to implement the measures that are currently being used, reactionary organizations such as  Viet Tan ,  Provisional National Government of Vietnam  and the number of people who oppose vigorously and decisively implemented activities against the Cybersecurity Law before and after the National Assembly's approval.

Immediately after the Law on Cybersecurity was promulgated, activities against breaking the Law became more and more fierce, reactionary organizations and the number of opponents continuously organized themselves to record videos, clips, and quote false information. .

The Ministry of Public Security emphasized: According to the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are protected when participating in activities in cyberspace against bad, toxic information that infringes upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyber attacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their legitimate rights and interests.

Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing and removing such information. information violating the law, as well as requesting the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law.

 This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests,  the Ministry of Public Security stated.

In addition, Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.

Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity  reinforces  more tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and other Internet services. The growing service on cyberspace in Vietnam is responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these people. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities).

According to the Ministry of Public Security, by requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about data. Before serious and complicated illegal activities in cyberspace, the Ministry of Public Security affirmed the requirement to ensure the basis and conditions for quick and effective investigation and handling of force. Legal protection is necessary and urgent, including the responsibility of domestic and foreign service providers.

Information of individuals with illegal activities is one of the important types of data for law enforcement forces to investigate and handle violations of the law.

Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for confidentiality. information, user's account; provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.

“As such, the network security protection force is only allowed to access the personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by law enforcement agencies. approval authority. Currently, there is a lot of information on the cyberspace that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information, private information to the authorities is incorrect. - The Ministry of Public Security said.

Moreover, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of illegal acts. the law.

The Ministry of Public Security also emphasized that the Law on Cybersecurity does not hinder the operation of enterprises and does not create sub-licenses.

Of the 7 regulations related to the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in the Law on Cybersecurity, none of them are related to business activities of enterprises, nor are there any regulations requiring enterprises to provide services in cyberspace. requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sub-license to be allowed to operate.

Except for coordinating with the specialized network security force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and aSome responsibilities are specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedying and handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to fulfill any other obligations for their business activities.

 There are no regulations on cybersecurity in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulate business establishment, start-up, investment, purchase, sale and business activities,  the Ministry of Public Security said."	
"* Protect information systems important to national security

According to the assessment of National Assembly delegate Bui Mau Quan (Hai Duong), in recent years, there have been more and more law violations in cyberspace, causing frustration in society.

These are activities that take advantage of cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, propagate, distort, slander and oppose the state. In addition, there are cyber espionage activities, stealing state secrets, infringing on economic management order and social order and safety, which emerge as activities of fraud, theft, gambling, and fishing. violence, online prostitution, theft of personal information, slander, humiliation of others and above all cyber attacks, hijacking, cyber terrorism, cyber war.

However, the handling of these cases is very passive, embarrassing and ineffective because there is no legal corridor that fully, specifically, and clearly regulates violations of the law in space. network.

In addition, there is no strict and strong sanctions to effectively handle acts violating national security, social order and safety, violating the lawful rights and interests of Vietnam. organizations and individuals in cyberspace,  said Quan.

According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, in 2017, information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, including about 3,000 phishing attacks (Phishing), 6,500 malware attacks (Malware) and 4,500 interface changing attacks (Deface).

In particular, the number of attacks on the information systems of state agencies with the domain name  .gov.vn  also reached hundreds. In the first 5 months of 2018, 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks were recorded in Vietnam, in February and March alone, there were more than 1,500 cyberattacks. Insecurity vulnerabilities are increasing, about more than 300% per year, causing the risk of network information security to increase rapidly when entering the Industrial Revolution 4.0.

Meanwhile, according to cybersecurity experts, even when the Law on Cyberinformation Security was promulgated (2015), there has been no legal document regulating information systems important to national security. therefore these systems are not adequately protected. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary, appropriate, and meets the urgent requirements of the current practical situation.

The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles that stipulate the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

One of the important contents of the Law lies in Chapter II, which provides for the protection of network security for information systems important to national security. The content of this chapter presents a full range of protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system. In which, defining criteria, related fields, and measures such as network security appraisal, condition assessment, inspection and monitoring of network security and response and remediation of security incidents are outlined. network security for information systems important to national security.

* Let people feel secure to operate in cyberspace

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department (Ministry of Public Security), affirmed that, in order to maximize the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, the Law stipulates a full range of measures. measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats, detect and handle violations of law, including prevention and handling of online information with propaganda content against the Republic of Vietnam. socialist Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of state secret information, work secrets, and personal information online;...

 This is a solid legal corridor so that people can feel secure to trade, do business or operate in cyberspace,  emphasized Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan.

Currently, user data in Vietnam online has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage. Even the data has been used for political conspiracies or in violation of the law. Therefore, in order to strictly manage and protect Vietnam's data online, the Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services in cyberspace have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing, processing personal data, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam.

Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam. Experts said that this regulation is in accordance with domestic law, international practices, not contrary to treaties to which Vietnam is a signatory and also not hinder business operations.

Major General Nguyen Minh Duc, Director of the Police Science Institute, the People's Police Academy analyzed that, according to statistics, there are currently 18 countries in the world that require data storage in the country, including: countries such as the US, the Russian Federation, China, etc. Regarding representative offices, according to the law, foreign trade promotion organizations must set up representative offices in Vietnam.

Currently, Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world. In addition, this regulation does not require the storage of all data related to Vietnam in cyberspace, does not require the storage of platform data, but only requires storage for some types of data. specific data, related to personal secrets in case of necessity and data related to national security, because this is the property of citizens, the property of the country needs to be managed and protected. .

Regarding the subjects of application, the regulations do not apply to all agencies and organizations operating in Vietnam's cyberspace, only to a number of service-providing agencies and organizations that are used by them. , taking advantage of or affecting national security.

Standing member of the National Assembly's Committee for Defense and Security Nguyen Thanh Hong assessed that this regulation is necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organizations and businesses.

Citing the fact that in the past time, Facebook has provided Cambridge Analytica with data of 87 million users, including nearly 500,000 user data in Vietnam for political purposes, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hong pointed out. It is necessary to take preventive measures to avoid some businesses providing services on social networks, using personal information for illegal purposes, infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of individuals and organizations. , enterprise.

Regarding personal information security, the Law stipulates that functional agencies must provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request. With this regulation, many people fear that their personal information will be leaked. However, Major General Nguyen Minh Duc affirmed that there will never be a leak of user information. In fact, since its inception, the specialized forces of the Ministry of Public Security have always performed the task of state management of security and order, including from management of residence, identity identity of citizens; traffic; business lines subject to security and order conditions; entry and exit; ... there has never been a leak of information.

“The guarantee of absolute confidentiality of citizens' personal information is not only a responsibility but also a legal obligation; If it is let loose or leaked, it will be strictly handled according to the provisions of law, depending on the nature, extent and consequences,  Major General Nguyen Minh Duc emphasized."	
Some dissidents have carried out propaganda activities, inciting demonstrations, and against the Cybersecurity Law in order to steer public opinion in an unfavorable direction, with statements such as  against humanity ,  silence of the people . owners”, “suppress dissent”, “create barriers to business”, “increase costs for businesses”, “add sublicenses”, “abuse power”, “ban the use of Facebook, Google”. The Ministry of Public Security affirms that the above information is fabricated and distorted, with the aim of obstructing or causing confusion and suspicion among the people about the Party and State's policies on cyber security. . The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not grant sublicenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals. Cybersecurity Law protects children's rights in cyberspace According to information from the Ministry of Public Security, the Law on Cybersecurity was prepared with the participation of relevant ministries and sectors, more than 30 large domestic telecommunications and information technology enterprises such as VNPT, FPT, and FPT. BKAV; many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US - ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association... and opinions widely of the general population. In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted 1 Chapter fully stipulating measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. detect and handle illegal acts. These include: Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of state secret information, work secrets, personal information in cyberspace... Preventing and handling acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security… Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on synchronously deploying network security protection activities. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services. In cyberspace in Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by service users. created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government. Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates fully the contents to ensure the implementation of network security protection activities… The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, etc. minimize illegal acts in cyberspace.	
"According to information from the Portal of the Ministry of Public Security, the Law on Cybersecurity, although carefully prepared, was approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, but because it is a law with provisions on prevention, fight and handling directly handle activities that infringe upon national security in cyberspace, so there are still concerns about the content of the Law.

Some dissidents have carried out propaganda activities, inciting demonstrations, and against the Cybersecurity Law in order to steer public opinion in an unfavorable direction, with statements such as  against humanity ,  silence of the people . owners”, “suppress dissent”, “create barriers to business”, “increase costs for businesses”, “add sublicenses”, “abuse power”, “ban the use of Facebook, Google”.

The Ministry of Public Security affirms that the above information is fabricated and distorted, with the aim of obstructing or causing confusion and suspicion among the people about the Party and State's policies on cyber security. . The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not grant sublicenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals.

Cybersecurity Law protects children's rights in cyberspace

According to information from the Ministry of Public Security, the Law on Cybersecurity was prepared with the participation of relevant ministries and sectors, more than 30 large domestic telecommunications and information technology enterprises such as VNPT, FPT, and FPT. BKAV; many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US - ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association... and opinions widely of the general population.
In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted 1 Chapter fully stipulating measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. detect and handle illegal acts.

These include: Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; prevention and combat of cyber espionage, protection of state secret information, work secrets, personal information in cyberspace...

Preventing and handling acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security…

Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on synchronously deploying network security protection activities. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter.

In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services. In cyberspace in Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by service users. created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.

Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates fully the contents to ensure the implementation of network security protection activities…

The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, etc. minimize illegal acts in cyberspace."	
"(1) Be protected when participating in cyberspace activities against bad, malicious information, infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity, cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their lawful rights and interests. With the scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be guaranteed to be safer and healthier than before, minimizing factors and risks. opportunities to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: personal information theft, fraud, appropriation of property, slander, humiliation, defamation, restriction of malicious code , gradually eliminate gambling, betting, transmission of depraved cultural products inciting violence, prostitution and other illegal acts in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace…; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed.

(2) To participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training.

(3) Being given tools to protect their interests:

– Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals in detecting, preventing and removing information that violates the law, as well as request the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove information that violates the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests.

– Article 17 of the Cybersecurity Law will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace.

– Article 18, Cybersecurity Law helps protect people from cybercrime activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts, etc.

– Article 19 of the Law on Cybersecurity gives tools to protect people from cyberattacks, such as spreading malicious code, denial of service attacks, etc.

– Article 26, Law on Cybersecurity “reinforces” more tools to protect people from malicious information by requiring domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and Additional services on cyberspace in Vietnam are responsible for eliminating sources of bad information by not or stopping providing services to these people. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data.

(4) Children with special protection in cyberspace: Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity prescribes the contents of protecting children in cyberspace. In which, it requires information system owners, enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace, agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers. caregivers and other individuals responsible for protecting children when children participate in cyberspace; requesting the specialized cyber security force to apply necessary measures to protect children's rights in cyberspace.

(5) To be protected by a specialized force for cybersecurity protection when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the task force is empowered to take necessary cybersecurity protection measures (Article 5), helping this force operate more effectively and efficiently, which means it will protect national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.

(6) The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to important for the formation of a safe and healthy cyberspace.

2. Limits on control of citizens' personal information

In the face of serious and complicated illegal activities in cyberspace, it is necessary to ensure the basis and conditions for quick and effective investigation and handling of the law enforcement force. necessary and urgent, including the responsibilities of domestic and foreign service providers. Information of individuals with illegal activities is one of the g types of important data for law enforcement forces to investigate and handle violations of the law.

Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 of the draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulates: “Domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to: responsible for providing user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security.

Thus, the network security protection force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by the relevant authorities. authorized to approve. Currently, there is a lot of information on the cyberspace that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information, private information to the authorities is incorrect. .

The Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request information. user.

The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations.

3. The Law on Cybersecurity does not hinder the operation of enterprises, does not create sub-licenses.

Of the 7 regulations related to the responsibilities of enterprises providing services in cyberspace in the Law on Cybersecurity, none of them are related to business activities of enterprises, nor are there any regulations requiring enterprises to provide services in cyberspace. requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sub-license to be allowed to operate.

Except for coordinating with the network security protection force to handle illegal acts in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedy, handling violations of the law, enterprises do not have to fulfill any other obligations for their business activities. There is no provision on cybersecurity in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase and sale activities."	
On June 12, the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly approved the Law on Cybersecurity, with the rate of 86.86%. The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. The Law on Cybersecurity provides for activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals, will take effect from January 1, 2019 (Illustration image. Source: Internet) According to the website of the Ministry of Public Security, protecting network security for information systems important to national security is one of the particularly important contents of the Law on Cybersecurity. Fully prescribe protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system, specifying criteria, related fields, and stipulating measures such as security appraisal. network, assess conditions, inspect and monitor security, and respond to and remedy network security incidents for information systems important to national security. According to the Ministry of Public Security, in order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted a Chapter fully stipulating prevention, fighting and handling measures to eliminate risks of threatening, detecting and handling law violations, including: Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; Preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace; Prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, IT and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; Preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; Preventing and combating cyber wars; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security.  This is a solid legal corridor for people to feel secure in doing business, doing business or operating in cyberspace,  emphasized the Ministry of Public Security. Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of network security protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations and regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects. The Ministry of Public Security said that, with strict regulations, the synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, The dignity and reputation of others will be dealt with strictly. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter. Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even used in conspiracy. political or illegal. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services. In cyberspace in Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by service users. created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government. Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates fully the contents to ensure the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities, identifies a specialized force for cybersecurity protection, and prioritizes training of quality cybersecurity human resources. high level, focusing on education, training and dissemination of knowledge about network security. The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. According to their assigned functions and tasks, functional ministries and branches are responsible for synchronously implementing assigned measures to move towards a low-risk cyberspace, minimizing violations of the law. in cyberspace. Cybersecurity Law does not  create business barriers  The website of the Ministry of Public Security also said that the Law on Cybersecurity was carefully and meticulously prepared with the participation of many people.	
"After the Cybersecurity Law was passed by the National Assembly with a vote of 86.86%, on June 13, the reporter of the CAND Newspaper had an interview with Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department, The Ministry of Public Security is concerned with the key contents of the law as well as the tasks in the coming time for the law to come to life.
Reporter: The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by the National Assembly on June 12. As the drafting agency, would you like to ask the Lieutenant General to tell us the scope of the law?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: This is a matter of great concern to many people, especially the online community and young people. The scope of the law is very clear, cyber security is to ensure that activities using cyberspace do not harm national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. , individual.
It can be said that protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals when using cyberspace is a very important issue that we have not raised since the network was used in Vietnam. Therefore, for a long time, there have been many activities using cyberspace to incite, divide, even insult dignity, offend religion and ethnicity.
This is a very new issue and represents the National Assembly's view in terms of protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals associated with national security.
Reporter: Will the prohibitions in the law prevent violations and monitor cyberspace, Lieutenant General?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: As we all know, although there is a Penal Code, it is not possible to completely prevent acts such as robbery, murder... However, each code has its own scope of articles. to make people understand what is a violation of the law.
If there is any problem, it must be handled according to regulations. The Law on Cybersecurity also sets out the prohibited acts, the scope of regulation so that people know what activities are protected by the state and what activities are prohibited, adjusted so that people and network users do not get caught up. .
If caught, they will be handled according to the provisions of the law. I think we do not monitor cyberspace, but only monitor illegal use of cyberspace.
Reporter: Is there an opinion that the security agency will abuse its power when the Law on Cybersecurity is passed?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: Recently, many opposing forces, some people have not read carefully, do not fully understand that there is a Law on Cybersecurity that is certain that the security agency can monitor all users' accounts. use in cyberspace.
However, according to the law, the specialized cyber security agencies of the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense only supervise illegal acts when using cyberspace. If the agency in charge of cybersecurity abuses cyber security operations to infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals that infringe upon national security, they will be severely handled before the law. Thus, there is certainly no abuse of power here.
Reporter: Will the passage of the Law on Cybersecurity create barriers for businesses as well as additional  sub-licenses ?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: The law was developed with the participation of ministries and branches and indispensable telecommunications and internet corporations. I can be sure the Cybersecurity Law does not create barriers, sublicenses for businesses. According to the Law on Cyberinformation Security, the Ministry of Information and Communications is responsible for granting licenses to units operating in cyberinformation security.
Reporter: Lieutenant General, how is the expression of personal opinions regulated in the law?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: Expressing personal opinions that do not violate the law is a normal activity, but insulting human dignity, religion, ethnicity, children's rights, etc. is prohibited. The law also dedicates a whole thing about protecting children's rights in cyberspace. This is an advancement of our country's laws.
Reporter: In order for the law to come to life, what should we do next time?
Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan: The Law on Cybersecurity will take effect from January 1, 2019. There is still a lot of work to be done in which about 25 decrees and circulars must be developed. Very fast speed but very high quality. We have prepared to focus on which decrees and circulars first in order to timely comply with the law.
We receive the support of the whole society and political system in propagating the law. However, some bad guys deliberately misrepresent, fabricate, and provoke when they think that the Cybersecurity Law silences democracy, bans the use of Facebook and Google, etc. We want the whole society, especially young people, to read it carefully. law, do not let bad guys take advantage of incitement. All violations will be handled in accordance with the law.
Reporter: Thank you Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan!"	
"Along with reviewing some key contents of the Cybersecurity Law, the Ministry of Public Security also affirms that this Law does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not issue sublicenses and does not hinder normal and correct operations. laws of organizations and individuals.
The above comments were just made by the Ministry of Public Security in an article introducing some basic contents of the Cybersecurity Law posted on the Ministry's website yesterday, June 15, 2018.

Important contents of the Cybersecurity Law
On June 12, the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly approved the Law on Cybersecurity, with the rate of 86.86%. The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals. According to the website of the Ministry of Public Security, protecting network security for information systems important to national security is one of the particularly important contents of the Law on Cybersecurity. Fully prescribe protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system, specifying criteria, related fields, and stipulating measures such as security appraisal. network, assess conditions, inspect and monitor security, and respond to and remedy network security incidents for information systems important to national security.

According to the Ministry of Public Security, in order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted a Chapter fully stipulating prevention, fighting and handling measures to eliminate risks of threatening, detecting and handling law violations, including: Prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order;

Preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets and personal information in cyberspace; Prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, IT and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; Preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; Preventing and combating cyber wars; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security.  This is a solid legal corridor for people to feel secure in doing business, doing business or operating in cyberspace,  emphasized the Ministry of Public Security.

Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of network security protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations and regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects.

The Ministry of Public Security said that, with strict regulations, the synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, The dignity and reputation of others will be dealt with strictly. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter.

Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even used in conspiracy. political or illegal. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services. In cyberspace in Vietnam, there are activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by service users. created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.

Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates fully the contents to ensure the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities, identifies a specialized force for cybersecurity protection, and prioritizes training of quality cybersecurity human resources. high level, focusing on education, training and dissemination of knowledge about network security.

The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. According to their assigned functions and tasks, functional ministries and branches are responsible for synchronously implementing assigned measures to move towards a low-risk cyberspace, minimizing violations of the law. in cyberspace.

Cybersecurity Law does not  create business barriers 
The website of the Ministry of Public Security also said that the Law on Cybersecurity was prepared meticulously, with the participation of comments from ministries, functional branches, more than 30 large telecommunications and IT enterprises. domestic such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV; many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups, including Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US-ASEAN Business Council, the Asia Cloud Computing Association; foreign representative agencies such as the US, Canada, Australia, Japan... and the public opinion.

The Ministry of Public Security commented that, although it was carefully prepared and approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, because this is a law with provisions on prevention, combat and direct handling of activities infringing upon the security national security in cyberspace I still have doubts about the content of the Law. Some dissidents have carried out propaganda activities, inciting demonstrations, and against the Cybersecurity Law in order to steer public opinion in an unfavorable direction, with statements such as  against humanity ,  silence of the people . owners”, “suppress dissent”, “create barriers to business”, “increase costs for businesses”, “add sublicenses”, “abuse power”, “ban the use of Facebook, Google”.

“Please confirm that these are fabricated and distorted information, with the aim of obstructing or causing confusion and suspicion among the masses about the Party and State's policies on cyber security. The Law on Cybersecurity does not contain the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not grant sublicenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals. electronic information of the Ministry of Public Security stated."	
"Over the past month, there has been a lot of misinformation on social networks saying that the Law on Cybersecurity banning citizens from using Facebook, Google, Zalo, and YouTube is a barrier in business, making it difficult for businesses. Bad guys with malicious intentions have led the public to misunderstand the essence of the Law, they spread false information, incited, and deceived people into believing that: Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law violates human rights; only Vietnam and China use the Law on Cybersecurity, when implementing this law, people are not allowed to use sites like google, facebook, zalo, youtube...; when applying the Law, users must provide all information to the state, including private and private messages, the introduction of the Law on Cybersecurity is a step backwards for Vietnam....

In Vietnam, from 2013 to now, there have been 2,405 websites of agencies and businesses hacked by hackers. Computer network attacks are becoming more sophisticated with new forms of national crime. Survey results show that social media users in Vietnam slander and defame 61.7%; slander, misrepresent, fabricate false information 46.6%; ethnic and religious discrimination 53%. Surfing through  dirty  Web sites or blogs such as  Patriot Diary ,  Friend of Viet Tan ,  Catholic Youth ,  New Horizons Radio ,  danlambaovn.blogs.spot.com  ” and a series of personal facebook pages with provocative and reactionary language created by reactionary elements to propagate, incite, slander, defame, distort to destroy our Party and State . What they all have in common is that they distort the truth and direct their attacks on the leadership of the Party. Therefore, social networks (Internet, personal pages ...) need to be strictly managed by law. So what is Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law for? Is it to deprive people of their freedom of speech? Depriving people of the right to use the internet as hostile forces and reactionaries claim?

Again, Article 25 of the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in 2013 stipulates that: Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, assembly, association, and expression. love. The exercise of these rights is provided for by law. All Vietnamese citizens have the right to freedom of speech and access to information. The Law on Cybersecurity passed by the National Assembly only stipulates sanctions for using cyberspace to commit acts against the State, infringing upon the rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. These are the following activities: (1) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training, and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; (2) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; (3) False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, etc., infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; (4) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions…; (5) Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes... (6) Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon sovereignty, interests, national security, order, social safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals or for self-seeking purposes” (Article 8).

Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law does not prohibit, does not prevent the right to freedom of speech, the right to express opinions of citizens, and there are no regulations prohibiting citizens and businesses from using social networking services such as Facebook. , Google, etc. The law only prohibits the expression of personal views, the act of posting and distributing information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State, distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, or destroying revolutionary achievements. undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, spreading false information, causing confusion among the people, causing damage to socio-economic activities, etc., infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of the organization. , other individuals, inciting riots, disrupting security, disrupting public order...

The misrepresentation of the Cybersecurity Law to bribe and incite an uninformed part of the people to take to the streets to protest, cause trouble, and destroy in Binh Thuan, Ho Chi Minh City, Nha Trang on June 10, 2018 is serious violation of Vietnamese law…

Everyone, please show your patriotism in a sober, lucid and responsible manner, resolutely not fall into the trap, do not become a puppet of the bad guys, go against the interests of the nation and nation."	
"The National Assembly has just passed the Law on Cybersecurity with 86.86% of the delegates agreeing. The formulation and promulgation of this Law comes from the context of the domestic cybersecurity situation and the requirement to protect national security, State secrets, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations. organizations and individuals, in accordance with international practices and the provisions of the Constitution... The National Assembly voted to pass the Law on Cybersecurity with an approval rate of 86.86%. (Photo: Duong Giang/VNA) However, in recent times, there has been a lot of inaccurate information on the Internet, social networks said that the Law on Cybersecurity will create ""business barriers,"" ""increase costs for businesses,"" ""sublicenses."" ... Some dissidents also posted information on social networks and websites with bad, malicious, distorting content, hindering the passage of this law. It is strictly forbidden to perform illegal acts in cyberspace Lieutenant General, Associate Professor - Dr. Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, Ministry of Public Security affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity only prohibits the implementation of illegal acts in cyberspace, there is no regulation on cyber security. which prohibits Facebook, Google or foreign service providers from operating in Vietnam. The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit or prevent citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. This act also has no provisions prohibiting citizens from using social networking services such as Facebook, Google... The Law on Cybersecurity also does not prohibit citizens from participating in activities in cyberspace or accessing and using information in cyberspace, nor does it prohibit citizens from starting, creating, exchanging, or deploying information on the Internet. their creative ideas in cyberspace. ""People can safely use Facebook, Youtube ... if they do not violate the prohibitions prescribed by law, including expressing their personal views on social networks. However, if they express their personal views, If a person offends another person's dignity, honor, religion, ethnicity, etc., this is a prohibited act. protected by law, any activities are prohibited so that network users do not get into violations,"" said Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan. Prohibited acts to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. Everyone must be responsible for their actions and statements in cyberspace if such actions or statements infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of other organizations and individuals. No control over citizens' personal information Facing speculations and concerns about the abuse of power by the authorities after the Law on Cybersecurity was passed, Lieutenant General Thuan said, this is a content that many people do not understand, do not read carefully the law and the forces. The enemy takes advantage of this ignorance to incite and confuse public opinion. A specialized network security agency only supervises illegal acts in cyberspace. In addition, the Law on Cybersecurity also stipulates that if a person performing an official duty on network security abuses his/her power or infringes upon the rights of individuals or organizations, they will also be severely handled. ""So there is certainly no abuse of power here,"" emphasized Lieutenant General Thuan. Lieutenant General Thuan added that the Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that only in the case of serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the network security protection force has the right to request request for user information. Currently, there is a lot of information on the internet that the Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide all user information such as personal information and private information to the authorities is incorrect. No ""sublicense"" is generated Director of the Cybersecurity Department Hoang Phuoc Thuan affirmed that there is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that requires businesses providing services in cyberspace to have a sublicense to be allowed to operate. ""Certainly, the cybersecurity agency will not issue any sub-licenses arising after the Cybersecurity Law takes effect,"" Lieutenant General Thuan affirmed and added, except for coordinating with the specialized force to handle the situation. violations of the law in cyberspace and a number of responsibilities specified in Article 41 related to warning, remedial and handling of illegal acts, enterprises are not required to comply with the law. any other obligations for its business. There is no provision in the Law on Cybersecurity that regulates enterprise establishment, start-up, investment, purchase and sale, and business activities."	
"In the early days of 2018, domestic and international media simultaneously reported on the scandal that shocked the world, that is, 87 million Facebook accounts were exposed and illegally shared to the Company. company Cambridge Antica for commercial and political use, leading to an urgent investigation by the United States and the European Union.
That shows, not only the US, UK and many other countries around the world are very interested in personal data, privacy on social networks includes both aspects of collection and protection. User data is considered as a national asset, the value brought from this data is not only in the economic and political fields but also in national security. Therefore, in Vietnam, the Draft Law on Cybersecurity requires foreign agencies and organizations providing services in cyberspace and owning information systems in Vietnam to store Vietnamese user data and other important data required by the Government of Vietnam is required. Benefits for businesses and authorities According to the draft Law on Cybersecurity, stored data will not cover all businesses, nor require restrictions, storing all data in Vietnam, but only applied in necessary cases, for reasons of national defense and security. Data storage is not a business condition for enterprises. Because only user data and important national data of Vietnam are stored, it is not fundamental data (for example, source data of software), so it does not affect and hinder the circulation of   data flow”, does not create barriers for businesses to participate in the economy of Vietnam. When foreign agencies and organizations provide services in cyberspace and own information systems in Vietnam that store data, Vietnamese authorities will coordinate with the above agencies and businesses. building tools including: Monitoring tool for the exploitation of user data and sharing it with third parties (whether the above-mentioned foreign agencies and organizations exploit big data of Vietnamese users or share for third parties need to be properly supervised according to the provisions of Vietnamese law and the commitments of these agencies and organizations to users). National security threat trends analysis tool (provides the ability to track trends in activities that threaten national security, such as calling for, recruiting terrorists, etc.) announcement; inciting protests; causing religious and political conflicts). Crime verification tool (provides information that helps Vietnamese law enforcement agencies to easily and quickly look up information of cyber users who commit violations) crime, location retrieval, evidence collection) and a number of other specialized tools for national security protection to manage this data. In the draft Law on Cybersecurity, there is no provision to prevent foreign enterprises from investing and participating in economic activities. Vietnam. The requirement to store user data and other important data in Vietnam does not affect or hinder foreign businesses operating in Vietnam. During the drafting process, Google, Facebook, and Amazon asked to work with the Drafting Committee and the Editorial Team of the Law project. In the content of the meetings, no company has confirmed that the requirement to store data is to prevent foreign businesses from investing or doing business in Vietnam. Facebook has agreed to coordinate with Vietnamese authorities and expressed its intention to set up a representative office but has not been able to do so due to procedural problems. Google has shared data management and information handling policies that violate the law. The Asian Cloud Computing Association (ACCA), whose core is Amazon, has exchanged documents on user data management policies by level and country-critical data of several countries. However, stemming from business interests, do not want to be governed by the laws of the host country, do not want to pay taxes and bear related obligations, after the draft Law on Cybersecurity was submitted for comments. Widely among the people, foreign telecommunications and internet service providers have commented on a number of contents related to the requirement that these enterprises must store user data and data in Vietnam. important data of Vietnam to create a  back effect  to promote communication, attract public opinion and influence policy on the draft Law on Cybersecurity. They even think that restricting the flow of data has consequences for economic development, which can reduce GDP by 1.7% and reduce foreign investment by 3.1% in Vietnam. In fact, this is information released by businesses that are doing business but do not pay taxes, and have not increased GDP for the country for many years. The purpose of these companies is to hinder the issuance of policies on cybersecurity, to facilitate these businesses to operate without the constraints of the law, to slow down the tax obligations. Not only in Vietnam, in order to deal with the strict management activities of countries around the world for social networks and technology services recently, a number of US companies led by Google, Facebook, etc. , Amazon ... have attracted and lobbied a number of other companies such as ACCA (a global accounting training and certification company), AIC (Asian Internet Alliance), UPS (a courier company specializing in providing accounting services). professional global warehousing and transportation services for goods, finance, information to more than 200 countries) organized a seminar to share views and discuss strategies to deal with ASEAN countries, important The focus is on Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia. In January 2018, this group held a workshop to discuss the following issues: Legal challenges for e-commerce operators in ASEAN (presented by AIC representative); Legal challenges in selected markets including Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia (presented by Facebook, Google and Visa); Campaign “Frequently Asked Questions and Advocacy Channels”. These companies have coordinated with the embassies of a number of countries in Vietnam such as the US, Canada, Australia, the EU, and Japan to send comments on the draft Law to the President of the National Assembly, Vice Chairmen of the National Assembly, Committees of the National Assembly, the State President, the Prime Minister and relevant ministries and branches. Simultaneously, in collaboration with the US-ASEAN Business Council, the American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham), the Internet Asia Alliance, the Business Software Alliance (BSA), the Computer Technology Industry Association (CompTIA), ), the European Association of Digital Organizations (DIG ITALEUROPE), Information Technology Industry Council, Japan Electronics and Information Technology Association (JEITA), American Semiconductor Industry Association, VISA and Mastercard Corporation, Asia Cloud Computing Association Asia (ACCA) organized discussions, seminars, and comments on the draft Law on Cybersecurity. Notably, in addition to requesting to work with Vietnamese authorities, including the Ministry of Public Security, the above companies also proposed to coordinate with the National Defense and Security Committee to organize a seminar, but because they did not meet the requirements of the Ministry of Public Security. was approved, so it has coordinated with domestic socio-professional organizations such as Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI), Vietnam Digital Media Association (VDCA) to organize discussions and seminars on building drafted the Law on Cybersecurity (November-2017, March to May 2018), stating analyzes contrary to the actual situation, detrimental to state management policy through easy reasons. approved by the public such as  concerns about effectiveness ,  legislators still have limited awareness of cyber security ,  transmit businesses' words , thereby proposing to  delay the time of passing draft Law on Cybersecurity”. Meanwhile, these agencies do not hold direct working sessions with the drafting agency or the verifying agency to propose and propose corrections. Despite making many unfavorable recommendations for the draft Law on Cybersecurity such as hindering the circulation of digital data, affecting the development of the digital economy, affecting businesses, arising administrative procedures, etc. but these enterprises did not indicate the basis for making those conclusions. Most of them are personal subjective conclusions, not based on scientific grounds. In particular, these conclusions do not stand on Vietnam's position in protecting national security, social order and safety."	
"Major General, recently, a news report of VTV1, Vietnam Television announced that in a very short time, in the month and March of 2018 alone, there were more than 1,500 cyber attacks against Vietnam. The above problems can be seen as a very worrying situation about network security that has been and is happening. But our handling is also very passive, awkward and not very effective. So, why is our processing not working? Is there no clear and specific legal corridor? Major General Nguyen Minh Duc: I would like to take a look at the recent cyberattack on Vietnam to explain part of the above statement. According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Center in 2017, information systems in Vietnam suffered about 15,000 cyber attacks, including about 3,000 phishing attacks and 6,500 attacks. install malware and 4,500 skin-changing attacks. Major General Nguyen Minh Duc. In particular, the number of attacks on the information systems of state agencies with the domain name "".gov.vn"" also reached hundreds. In 2017, the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users reached 12,300 billion VND (540 million USD), far exceeding the 10,400 billion VND mark of 2016 and has reached a record in recent years. In the first 5 months of 2018, 4,035 incidents of cyberattacks were recorded in Vietnam, in February and March alone, there were more than 1,500 cyberattacks; Besides, with about 637,400 controlled computers in infected computer networks (ghost computer networks - botnets), Vietnam ranks fourth in the Top 10 countries controlled by ghost computer networks. . Insecurity vulnerabilities are increasing, at more than 300% per year, causing the risk of network information security to increase rapidly when entering the industrial revolution 4.0. In the face of such cyber attacks against Vietnam, the specialized Cyber ​​Security forces of the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense and other Vietnamese authorities have focused all technical and people to prevent and combat cyber attacks, but it is difficult to achieve the highest efficiency. According to cybersecurity experts, current protection is not enough to deal with modern cyber attacks because different implementations are often independent of each other; The lack of a clear legal framework creates a responsibility to link the implementation measures of the Vietnamese authorities with each other, especially with other countries. Most countries have effective cyber-attack prevention systems, in addition to technical solutions, people also have a specific legal corridor. That said, only effective prevention of cyberattacks is possible, in addition to technical and human measures, there must be a specific and clear legal system eligible to implement legal and cooperative measures. international. Reporter: Some comments are concerned about being checked and monitored when importing and using the information system. As the law project appraisal agency, Major General said, the Public Security Agency has the right to inspect and supervise all information systems or only evaluate and test some particularly important systems. What are the particularly important systems identified, Major General? Major General Nguyen Minh Duc: In fact, in the face of increasingly modern and sophisticated targeted cyber attacks, just one mistake of agencies, organizations, businesses and users can suffer very serious consequences. Therefore, most of them actively propose a specialized network to protect network security to help check from the beginning, as well as regularly, their devices and network systems, so that they can rest assured in production and business. . A part is afraid of being inspected and supervised because they do not understand the importance and effective assistance from the agency in charge of protecting network security, or there are many cases where they may do business in the dark. dark, lack of transparency, so fear of being checked. The provisions in Chapter 2 of the Draft Law on Cybersecurity stipulate that the specialized agency in charge of cybersecurity protection of the Ministry of Public Security must be responsible for protecting national security and social order and safety in cyberspace; the inspection and monitoring of information is the responsibility of all network owners; The Cybersecurity task force of the Ministry of Public Security only assesses and inspects some particularly important systems in terms of security and order, but not all. Important national security information systems are information systems that, when damaged, attacked, infiltrated, hijacked, falsified, disrupted, interrupted, paralyzed or destroyed, will cause harmful to sovereignty, interests, national security and seriously harm social order and safety. Reporter: Article 26 stipulates that foreign agencies and organizations providing services in cyberspace must store in Vietnam personal information of service users in Vietnam and important data. relating to National Security; to set up its head office or representative office in Vietnam; there is an opinion that we are violating the agreements we have signed, what is your view on this matter? Major General Nguyen Minh Duc: I think, the regulation ""Storage in Vietnam for personal information of users in Vietnam and important data related to National Security; setting up a head office or representative office in Vietnam” is feasible, in accordance with domestic laws, international practices, not contrary to the treaties to which we are party, nor hindering the operation of enterprises. . I agree and support this provision. Firstly, about storing important national data in the country, according to statistics, there are currently 18 countries in the world that require data storage in the country, such as the US, Canada, the Russian Federation, France, etc. Germany, China, Australia, Indonesia, Greece, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Turkey, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil. As such is the international practice, we are not the first country to apply this regulation. Secondly, through reviewing documents of commitments to join WTO such as General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT 1994), General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), Agreement on Aspects related to trade of intellectual property rights (TRIPS); At the same time, reviewing the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), I found that these documents all contain provisions on security exceptions, allowing respect and protection of national security in Vietnam. highest level. The most objective example is that the 18 countries mentioned above have all joined the WTO, they can only do so if they do not violate WTO commitments. Thus, it can be affirmed that we do not violate international commitments. Third, about representative offices, according to the provisions of our country's law on commerce, foreign trade promotion organizations must set up representative offices in Vietnam according to the 2005 Commercial Law, the Law on Foreign Trade Management, and the Law on Foreign Trade Management. 2017 and the guiding documents, directly the Government's Decree 28/2018/ND-CP detailing the Law on Foreign Trade Management on a number of measures to develop foreign trade. Currently, Google has set up about 70 representative offices, Facebook about 80 representative offices in countries around the world. Fourth, the above regulation is focused and focused. Regarding data, this regulation does not require the storage of all data related to Vietnam in cyberspace, does not require the storage of platform data, but only requires storage for some data. specific types of data, related to personal secrets in case of necessity, and data related to National Security, because this is the property of citizens, the property of the country needs to be managed and protected. guard. Regarding the subjects of application, the regulations do not apply to all agencies and organizations operating in Vietnam's cyberspace, only to a number of service-providing agencies and organizations that are used by them. , taking advantage of or affecting national security. In terms of management, data management is done through data centers in Vietnam and by management tools. When foreign agencies and organizations provide services in cyberspace and own an information system in Vietnam that stores data, Vietnamese authorities will coordinate with agencies and organizations providing services in cyberspace. services in cyberspace develop tools for managing and monitoring the use of these types of data. The Government will specify this content. Fifth, in practice, the failure to manage user data and important national data has been affecting national interests and security. Regarding national security and crime prevention, at present, hostile, reactionary and criminal forces are increasing the use of cyberspace to infringe on national security, social order and safety, while the authorities face many difficulties in investigating, verifying, tracing and handling these violations because all data is located abroad. In terms of national interests, user data is an asset of infinite exploitation value, an input material for many economic activities with high profit value, while foreign agencies and organizations If we earn trillions of dong a year from Vietnamese user data, our country is losing tax revenue. Regulations on data storage and representative offices will contribute to removing the above difficulties. Reporter: It is known that while the authorities are drafting the Law project, companies such as Google, Facebook, Amazon... have asked to work with the drafting board and the editorial team, agreeing to coordinate with other agencies. authorities. Why do you think they do this? Major General Nguyen Minh Duc: Companies such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple they are companies specializing in providing online services in cyberspace, they are essentially service businesses, making profits and paying taxes, can greatly affect the ability to shape public opinion, and spreading disinformation widely on social networks and the Internet can all pose a threat to democracies and classes. young. For the reasons mentioned above, the laws of many countries tighten the activities of Google, Facebook, Amazon... these companies will have a great risk of losing revenue, so they have reacted very quickly.By being willing to compromise with the governments of countries to choose a safe and legal solution without penalty or ban.

Therefore, when Vietnam developed the Law on Cybersecurity, these companies sought to approach us to negotiate and accept the provisions of the draft Law, so that they could still operate on the Internet. market in Vietnam safely under Vietnamese law and still earn legitimate profits and pay taxes according to Vietnamese law, without being banned.

Enemy forces always find ways to destroy our State, so they should find all ways to distort the truth, by all means to influence a section that lacks understanding of cyberspace and e-commerce, so think that the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity will ""cause difficulties"" or ""add administrative burdens"" to businesses, thereby misinterpreting the policy and purpose of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity.

Reporter: Regarding the security of personal information, the draft stipulates that the authorities must provide user information to the specialized Cyber ​​Security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request. .

Many people fear that their personal information will be leaked. Can this happen sir? According to Major General, in fact, has there ever been a leak or a cadre taking advantage of it for non-public purposes?

Major General Nguyen Minh Duc: I can confirm that there will never be a leak of user information. In fact, since its establishment up to now, the specialized forces of the Ministry of Public Security have always performed the task of State management of security and order, including from management of residence, identity identification of citizens; traffic; business lines subject to security and order conditions; entry and exit; ... there has never been a leak of information.

Ensuring absolute confidentiality of citizens' personal information is not only a responsibility but also a legal obligation; if it is let loose or disclosed, it will be strictly handled according to the provisions of law, depending on the nature, extent and consequences."	"Keeping up with the requirement to set up a representative office in Vietnam

Reporting on explaining, absorbing and revising the draft Law on Cybersecurity, Chairman of the National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet said that at the 4th session of the XIV National Assembly, the National Assembly deputies (Deputies of the National Assembly) ) discussed and commented on the Cybersecurity Law project. After the meeting, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly (the Standing Committee of the National Assembly) directed the study, acceptance and revision of the draft Law according to the process.

Regarding ensuring information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam, he said there are many different opinions on this issue.

In which, many opinions agree that it is mandatory for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam to set up a representative agency or server to manage Vietnamese user data in Vietnam.

Some opinions disagree with this regulation, because they think that it is difficult to ensure the feasibility, is not true to reality, increases the costs of foreign enterprises, makes it difficult to access information and contrary to international commitments to which Vietnam is a member... it is recommended to study other management methods accordingly.

Vo Trong Viet said that the Standing Committee of the National Assembly found that this content had many different opinions, some foreign ambassadors in Vietnam and some organizations had comments. The Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed relevant agencies to organize conferences to discuss and exchange with ambassadors, clarifying relevant recommendations.

After considering many aspects, and at the same time referring to similar provisions of the laws of some countries that are members of the WTO, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly adjusted as follows: Regarding the requirement to set up a data management server in the territory of Vietnam, Receiving comments from the National Assembly deputies, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed not to stipulate this content in the draft Law to ensure the feasibility and convenience for the operation of foreign enterprises when providing services to Vietnam.

Regarding the requirement to set up a representative agency and store Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly proposed to keep this content in the draft Law and combine it with similar regulations for domestic enterprises.

Chairman Vo Trong Viet analyzed that such regulation would have many advantages. First of all, meeting the requirements of protecting national sovereignty over electronic data and handling situations and acts in cyberspace that infringe upon national security, social order and safety; attaching obligations and responsibilities of domestic and foreign agencies and organizations in providing information and data for investigation, verification, handling of violations, and preventing and removing anti-Party and State information water in cyberspace.

This provision is also consistent with international treaties to which Vietnam is a contracting party, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic Rights. social and cultural, the Basic Agreements of the WTO; in accordance with the 2013 Constitution and meet the requirements of the current practical situation.

On the other hand, creating a legal corridor for functional ministries and branches to strictly manage the activities of enterprises providing cross-border services into Vietnam; ensure payment sovereignty, prevent tax loss.

At the same time, ensuring fairness between foreign enterprises and domestic enterprises.
Speaking at the National Assembly Hall, many delegates not only expressed their opinions but also used the right to debate to discuss this issue.

Delegate Cao Dinh Thuong (Phu Tho) expressed his high agreement with the passing of the cybersecurity law to prevent and respond to threats to network security. Delegates agreed with the regulation that foreign enterprises, when providing services in cyberspace or owning information systems in Vietnam, must have their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam. According to the delegate, the above provisions will be useful if implemented in order to control data and users for investigation, crime prevention, and counter-revolutionary misrepresentation.

However, the delegate wondered, if the foreign business side does not implement, what is the solution, is it to stop providing services in the territory of Vietnam? From there, the delegate suggested that there should be regulations in line with Vietnam's reality, as well as Vietnam's commitments to foreign countries and international law.

According to the delegate, in order to ensure cyber security in Vietnam, the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, and the Government Cipher Committee have very heavy responsibilities. Therefore, the Drafting Committee needs to review and clearly define the responsibilities of each agency, the responsibility for coordination so as not to overlap and easily implement in practice.

Delegate Pham Thi Thanh Thuy (Thanh Hoa) also said that it is very necessary to develop a law on cyber security in the context of information technology development, approaching the industrial revolution 4.0. However, the delegate suggested that some provisions should be considered to avoid unnecessary overlap in state management; avoid creating too many barriers leading to compliance burden for agencies, organizations and individuals providing services; obstruct or limit the benefits of enjoying good and legitimate services of Vietnamese people.

Through studying the draft Law on Cybersecurity, the delegates paid special attention to the regulations that require foreign agencies and organizations when providing services in cyberspace in Vietnam to set up a representative office in Vietnam. .

The delegate frankly expressed his opinion:  This request is difficult to be feasible, not suitable for the actual situation, increases the costs of businesses and makes it difficult for the people to access information. Vietnam in case foreign enterprises do not set up their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam”.

According to the delegate, at present, the servers of services that many Vietnamese people use regularly, such as Google, Facebook, etc., are located abroad. With current development technology, the server is not a specific machine, but according to the cloud algorithm, the server is a virtual machine, allowing users to access technology services from a certain provider, trend This direction is the forward trend, including our country. From this fact, it is required that foreign agencies and organizations, when providing services in cyberspace in Vietnam, set up their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam to manage servers and data management. Vietnamese users are not feasible.

Delegates also analyzed, if foreign enterprises do not comply with this regulation, they may not be allowed to provide services in Vietnam, greatly affecting the access to information and use of services of the foreigner. people, especially in the context that our country does not have any brands to meet the needs of people to access information and use services.

Another reason given by the delegate was that, in the commitment of the World Trade Organization, telecommunications services provided across borders are services that do not restrict market access, except in some specific cases, but in those excluded cases, there is no requirement to set up a representative office or representative office in the territory of Vietnam. The commitments in the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement that Vietnam has signed are also similar.  Therefore, if the provisions of the bill are not consistent with the commitments that Vietnam has signed,  the delegate affirmed.

Contrary to the above view, delegate Nguyen Hong Van (Phu Yen) emphasized that it is very necessary for foreign enterprises to set up a representative office in Vietnam when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam. . This will ensure national sovereignty, contribute to strict management of activities of enterprises providing cross-border services to Vietnam;  Youtube has representative offices in about 80 countries, Google also has about 70 addresses in the world,  the delegate added.

In addition to the above content, the National Assembly deputies gave opinions on handling acts of using cyberspace infringing upon sovereignty, national security, social order and safety; on appraisal, examination, assessment and supervision of cybersecurity of information systems important to national security; measures to protect network security…/.
"
"2. Purpose of building the Law on Cybersecurity

 - Improve the stable legal basis for network security in the direction of applying legal provisions in a synchronous and feasible manner in practice.

- To bring into play the country's resources to ensure network security, develop the field of cyber security to meet the requirements of socio-economic development, national defense and security, and contribute to improving the quality of life of the people. people and ensure national defense and security.

- Protecting the sovereignty, interests, national security, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, building a healthy cyberspace environment.

- Deploying cybersecurity work nationwide, stepping up monitoring, forecasting, response and rehearsal to respond to cyber security incidents, and protecting information systems important to national security. ; ensure effective state management in this field.

- Improve autonomy in cybersecurity, improve research policies, develop strategies, and share information on network security.

- Expanding international cooperation on cybersecurity on the basis of respect for independence, sovereignty, equality and mutual benefit, in accordance with domestic laws and international treaties to which our country is a signatory.

3. Basic content of the Law on Cybersecurity

The Law on Cybersecurity includes 07 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

Cybersecurity protection for information systems important to national security is one of the particularly important contents of the Law on Cybersecurity. Fully prescribe protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance of this information system, specifying criteria, related fields, and stipulating measures such as security appraisal. network, assess conditions, inspect and monitor security, and respond to and remedy network security incidents for information systems important to national security.

In order to maximally protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted a chapter (Chapter III) to fully stipulate measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate threats. opportunities to threaten, detect and handle violations of the law, including: prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets, and personal information in cyberspace; prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security. This is a solid legal corridor so that people can safely do business, do business or operate in cyberspace.

Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations, regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations, synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of Others will be dealt with severely. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter.

Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even being used for political conspiracy. rule or violate the law. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the internet and valuable services. increase in cyberspace in Vietnam with activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by users Services created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.

 Human resources to protect network security is one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates all the contents ensure the implementation of network security protection activities, identify a specialized force for network security protection, give priority to the training of high-quality cyber security human resources, focus on education, retraining and knowledge dissemination. about network security.

The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. According to their assigned functions and tasks, ministries, functional branches, and provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for synchronously implementing assigned measures to move towards a low-risk cyberspace with maximum limitation. illegal acts in cyberspace.

Although it was carefully prepared and approved by the majority of National Assembly deputies, because this is a law with provisions on prevention, combat and direct handling of activities infringing upon national security in space. network, so there are still concerns about the content of the Law. Some dissidents have carried out propaganda activities, distorting with such statements as  against humanity ,  silence democracy ,  suppress dissent ,  create business barriers . , “increasing costs for businesses”, “adding sublicenses”, “abusing power”, “banning the use of Facebook, Google”. This is completely fabricated information, distorting, with the aim of obstructing or causing panic and suspicion among the people about the Party's guidelines, the State's policies and laws on security. network. The Cybersecurity Law does not contain the above provisions, does not create barriers, does not increase administrative procedures, does not grant sublicenses and does not hinder the normal and lawful activities of organizations and individuals."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity includes 7 chapters and 43 articles, stipulating the basic contents of cybersecurity protection for information systems important for national security; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.

      Cybersecurity protection for information systems important to national security is one of the particularly important contents of the Law on Cybersecurity. Fully stipulate protection measures and activities commensurate with the importance levels of this information system, specifying criteria for identification, related fields, and stipulating measures such as security appraisal. network security, assessment of conditions, security inspection and supervision, and response and remediation of cybersecurity incidents for information systems important to national security.

      In order to maximize the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, the Law on Cybersecurity has devoted 01 chapter (Chapter III) to fully prescribe measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate the risks. opportunities to threaten, detect and handle violations of the law, including: prevention and handling of information in cyberspace with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order; preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets, and personal information in cyberspace; prevent and handle acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on security and order; preventing and combating cyber attacks; prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; cyberwar prevention and combat; prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security; fight for network security. This is a solid legal corridor for people to feel secure in trading, doing business or operating online.

      Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity focuses on stipulating the implementation of network security protection activities in a synchronous and unified manner from the central to local levels, with a focus on state agencies and political organizations and regulations. clearly define the contents of implementation and inspection of network security for the information systems of these agencies and organizations. National cyber infrastructure, international network gateway is also one of the key protected objects. With strict regulations, the synchronous participation of state agencies, businesses and organizations and individuals, the use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe on honor, dignity and reputation of others will be severely dealt with. Cybersecurity research and development activities, technology development, products, services and applications to protect network security, improve cyber security autonomy and protect children in space networks are also detailed in this Chapter.

      Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even being used for political conspiracy. rule or violate the law. In order to strictly manage and protect our country's data in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises provide services on telecommunications networks, the internet and valuable services. increase in cyberspace in Vietnam with activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, data collected by users Services created in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period specified by the Government.

      Network security protection resources are one of the decisive factors for the success or failure of network security protection. Chapter V of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates fully the contents to ensure the implementation of cybersecurity protection activities, identifies a specialized force for cybersecurity protection, and prioritizes training of quality cybersecurity human resources. high level, focusing on education, training and dissemination of knowledge about network security.
The responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals are also clearly defined in the Law on Cybersecurity, focusing on the responsibilities of the specialized cyber security force located at the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense. According to their assigned functions and tasks, ministries, functional branches, and provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for synchronizing assigned measures to move towards a low-risk cyberspace, minimizing actions. violations of the law in cyberspace.

      The Law on Cybersecurity is a law with provisions on preventing, fighting and directly handling activities infringing upon national security in cyberspace. propagate and distort with such statements as  against humanity ,  silence democracy ,  suppress dissent ,  create barriers to business ,  increase costs for businesses ,   add sublicense ,  abuse power ,  ban use Google, Facebook . This is completely fabricated information, misrepresentation, with the purpose of obstructing or"	
"At the conference, Senior Lieutenant General Nguyen Van Thanh - Deputy Minister of Public Security - affirmed:  Vietnam is being strongly affected by developments in the world cyber security situation, posing risks and challenges that are not small for each agency, organization or individual, even threatening national defense and security. Our country's important national security information system is always in danger. 

Alerting the state of insecurity, information safety

Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan - Director of the Cyber ​​Security Department, Ministry of Public Security - pointed out 8 risks that can lead to disaster from cyber attacks or network incidents.

In which, there are some major risks such as losing control of the information system in service of defense - security; having appropriate documents and state secrets; paralysis of activities of Party and State agencies; destroyed the national database information system on resident management, immigration... directly affecting many important fields such as economy, defense, transportation, health...

According to Lieutenant General Thuan, from the beginning of 2016 to the end of the first six months of 2017, functional agencies of the Ministry of Public Security detected and handled more than 100 cases of leaking state secrets in cyberspace.

Some management agencies and units continue to let state secrets leak out after the competent authorities of the Ministry of Public Security issued written reminders and notices of violations.

 There is a situation where the newspaper keeps losing information, even one of our electrical systems is publicly sold on the internet, but still no sanctions,  said Mr. Thuan.

Drafting the Law on Cybersecurity

At the workshop, representatives of ministries, branches, corporations and businesses contributed many ideas to the draft Law on Cybersecurity that is being developed and expressed that this will be an important legal corridor to strengthen the network security assurance of the country as well as agencies, organizations and enterprises in the new situation.

Lieutenant General Thuan affirmed that the draft Law on Cybersecurity, advised by the Ministry of Public Security to the Government and the National Assembly, will better meet the requirements of national security protection, clarifying the responsibilities of the ministries: Public Security and National Defense , Information Communication.

From these clear provisions, when the law is officially promulgated and takes effect, it will clearly define the responsibility of the governing body and the state management agency for cybersecurity protection for important information systems. on national security, well solve the requirements of prevention, form a mechanism for smooth coordination and cooperation between functional forces in detecting, handling, overcoming and promptly responding to all situations. network security situations.

It is known that the draft Law on Cybersecurity will be submitted to the National Assembly for comments at the October meeting and is expected to be approved in 2018.

Increasing cyber security breaches at PVN

Dr. Hoang The Dung, deputy head of the science and technology department of the Vietnam Oil and Gas Group (PVN), said that from 2012 up to now, the activities of infringing objects, threatening to infringe on network security at PVN has a frequency of appearance, an increasing number of days, methods and tricks are becoming more and more sophisticated and complex.

“PVN currently owns many large-scale investment projects, works and production systems, playing an important role in the economy.

PVN has industrial activities in a wide geographical area, including off the coast of Vietnam's continental shelf.

Therefore, PVN's internal networks and networks connecting to the Internet can still be a very sensitive target for all cybercriminals,  Dung said.

According to reports, every day PVN's mail filtering system blocks and handles 18,000 spam and virus-containing messages.

3 subjective reasons leading to network insecurity

1 The work of ensuring information security and network security in many agencies and units has not been paid due attention, not following the security process.

2 The coordination between state management agencies and governing agencies is not effective.

3 The awareness of many leaders as well as user awareness is low and subjective, the qualifications of the network security experts are still weak and have not met the work requirements."	
"After being submitted to the National Assembly at the 4th session, the draft Law on Cybersecurity was revised and supplemented on the basis of discussions of National Assembly deputies and comments of the people and professional agencies. , which is expected to be approved by the National Assembly at this session. However, on social networks, foreign press appeared many articles with words that ""threatened"" the consequences if this bill was passed, such as: ""The Cybersecurity Law will tighten freedom of expression."" ; ""Vietnam aims to tighten Facebook and Google, ""threaten dissent""; ""Don't let Vietnam become the enemy of progressive values""... Along with making defensive arguments, some people ""threate"" that the Vietnamese government ""will fail if the Cybersecurity bill is passed"". They even analyzed themselves subjectively and then said: ""In the more than 20-year history of the Internet (1997-2018), the interests of the nation, the nation and the freedom of the people have never been threatened as great as those of the Internet. what is being prepared in the Cybersecurity bill”. Many articles have been published in a number of foreign press such as BBC, VOA... with insulting words, criticizing the Vietnamese Government for ""strangling"" the Internet, ""slow progress"", ""pull back history"". .. Along with that, a number of organizations have sent letters to Vietnamese authorities, in the name of ""suggesting the bill"" but making suggestions that are imposing, rebellious, and threatening if the bill is passed. ... It should be seen that, in drafting a law project, it is normal to have different opinions, even necessary to ensure that the legal regulations are stricter, more appropriate and easy to come to life when the law is enacted. to be promulgated. This is a bill that affects new and sensitive issues such as cybersecurity. In the process of drafting and collecting opinions, besides scientists and authorities, every citizen has the right to give opinions in the form of writing, speaking at conferences, seminars, letters, etc. Feedback... However, giving opinions is in a constructive spirit, whether you agree or disagree with a certain content or issue of the bill, you must also express your views and opinions based on scientific grounds. persuasive learning and practice and for the common good. Meanwhile, forms of ""suggestions"" like the one above for the Cybersecurity Law project clearly show that the motives are not pure, many people show the intention to sabotage and create public opinion to hinder the passage of the law of the country. Congress. Meanwhile, those who often use the reason that the bill ""intimidates dissenters"" is actually the number of people who have anti-government behavior or have thoughts and views against the Party and State. This number shows that they have studied the bill very carefully and they realize that many provisions will bind their own activities, so they find ways to react and criticize, but they do not see the issues raised by the law from the perspective of the law. science, for the benefit of the nation and the community. This is the reason for the ""other point of view"" that they seek to fight and react to the bill. Two of the items in the bill that many people ""spin"" are regulations on data storage and server placement. Many organizations voiced their reactions for their local interests, their business interests. According to the draft Law on Cybersecurity, stored data will not cover all businesses, nor restrict, store all data in Vietnam, but only in case of necessity. defense and security reasons. Data storage is not a business condition for enterprises. Because only user data and important national data of Vietnam are stored, it is not background data, so it does not affect and hinder the circulation of ""data flow"", does not create barriers. for enterprises participating in the economy of Vietnam. Some articles are critical, the bill will ""squeeze"" investors in Vietnam, hindering their investment opportunities in Vietnam. In fact, there is no provision to prevent foreign enterprises from investing and participating in the operation of the Vietnamese economy. The requirement to store user data and other important data in Vietnam does not affect or hinder foreign businesses operating in Vietnam. On the contrary, good data management will be a good basis for all legitimate business and cooperation activities of organizations and citizens... During the drafting process, Google, Facebook, and Amazon asked to work with the drafting and editing team of the bill. In the content of the meetings, no company has confirmed that the requirement to store data is to prevent foreign businesses from investing or doing business in Vietnam. Facebook has agreed to coordinate with Vietnamese authorities and expressed its intention to set up a representative office but has not been able to do so due to procedural problems. Google has shared data management and information handling policies that violate the law. And the Asian Cloud Computing Association (ACCA), with Amazon at its core, has exchanged documents on user data management policies by level and national important data of some countries... Obviously, when the fish Companies like Google and Facebook have agreed to coordinate with Vietnamese authorities, they do not react, but outsiders do not understand the situation, they automatically say, if they have to set up a server, Google and Facebook ""walk away"". Obviously, that's a baseless deduction, out of tune with the reality that's going on... The fact shows that, from business interests, do not want to be governed by the laws of the host country, do not want to pay taxes and bear related obligations, enterprises providing telecommunications and Internet services in other countries have not been able to meet the requirements. Outsiders have commented on a number of content related to requiring these businesses to store in Vietnam user data and important data in order to create a ""back effect"" to promote communication. public opinion and policy impact on the draft Cybersecurity Law. They even think that restricting the flow of data has consequences for economic development, which can reduce GDP by 1.7% and reduce foreign investment by 3.1% in Vietnam. In fact, this is information released by businesses that are doing business but do not pay taxes, and have not increased GDP for the country for many years. The purpose of these companies is to hinder the issuance of policies on cybersecurity, to facilitate these businesses to operate without the constraints of the law, to slow down the tax obligations. Not only in Vietnam, in order to cope with the strict management activities of countries around the world for social networks and technology services recently, a number of companies in the US have attracted, operates a number of other companies such as ACCA (a global accounting training and certification company), AIC (Asian Internet Alliance), UPS (a courier company specializing in providing warehousing and shipping services). a global professional in commodities, finance, information to more than 200 countries) organizes seminars to share views and discuss strategies to deal with ASEAN countries, with a focus on Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia. These companies have coordinated with the embassies of a number of countries in Vietnam such as the US, Canada, Australia, the EU, and Japan to send comments on the draft law to the National Assembly, the President, the Government and ministries. related industry. They also collaborate with a number of organizations such as the US-ASEAN Business Council, the American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham), the Asian Internet Alliance, the Business Software Alliance (BSA), the Technology Industry Association computer (CompTIA), Cloud Computing Association of Asia (ACCA),..., collaborated with a number of organizations in Vietnam to discuss and discuss the draft law. At these seminars, they raised the opposite analysis of the actual situation, detrimental to the state management policy through easily agreed reasons such as ""concern about effectiveness"". , ""legislators still have limited awareness of cyber security"", ""translated businesses' words"", thereby proposing ""postponement of the draft Law on Cybersecurity"". Most of them are personal subjective conclusions, not based on scientific grounds. These conclusions clearly have personal motives, interests, and intentions, not in the interests of the nation and the community of Vietnam."	
"The Cybersecurity Bill submitted to the National Assembly has removed the requirement that foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam must set up a server, but still requires the establishment of a representative agency and storage of user data. use Vietnam in the territory of Vietnam. Overview of the meeting on the morning of May 29 (Photo: quochoi.vn) This is an issue that many delegates are interested in expressing their opinions, using the right to debate when discussing the Cybersecurity Law project on the morning of May 29, at the National Assembly Hall. Keeping up with the requirement to set up a representative office in Vietnam Reporting on explaining, absorbing and revising the draft Law on Cybersecurity, Chairman of the National Defense and Security Committee Vo Trong Viet said that at the 4th session of the XIV National Assembly, the National Assembly deputies (Deputies of the National Assembly) ) discussed and commented on the Cybersecurity Law project. After the meeting, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly (the Standing Committee of the National Assembly) directed the study, acceptance and revision of the draft Law according to the process. Regarding ensuring information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam, he said there are many different opinions on this issue. In which, many opinions agree that it is mandatory for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam to set up a representative agency or server to manage Vietnamese user data in Vietnam. Some opinions disagree with this regulation, because they think that it is difficult to ensure the feasibility, is not true to reality, increases the costs of foreign enterprises, makes it difficult to access information and contrary to international commitments to which Vietnam is a member... it is recommended to study other management methods accordingly. Vo Trong Viet said that the Standing Committee of the National Assembly found that this content had many different opinions, some foreign ambassadors in Vietnam and some organizations had comments. The Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed relevant agencies to organize conferences to discuss and exchange with ambassadors, clarifying relevant recommendations. After considering many aspects, and at the same time referring to similar provisions of the laws of some countries that are members of the WTO, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly adjusted as follows: Regarding the requirement to set up a data management server in the territory of Vietnam, Receiving comments from the National Assembly deputies, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed not to stipulate this content in the draft Law to ensure the feasibility and convenience for the operation of foreign enterprises when providing services to Vietnam. Regarding the requirement to set up a representative agency and store Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly proposed to keep this content in the draft Law and combine it with similar regulations for domestic enterprises. Chairman Vo Trong Viet analyzed that such regulation would have many advantages. First of all, meeting the requirements of protecting national sovereignty over electronic data and handling situations and acts in cyberspace that infringe upon national security, social order and safety; attaching obligations and responsibilities of domestic and foreign agencies and organizations in providing information and data for investigation, verification, handling of violations, and preventing and removing anti-Party and State information water in cyberspace. This provision is also consistent with international treaties to which Vietnam is a signatory, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic Rights. social and cultural, the Basic Agreements of the WTO; in accordance with the 2013 Constitution and meet the requirements of the current practical situation. On the other hand, creating a legal corridor for functional ministries and branches to strictly manage the activities of enterprises providing cross-border services into Vietnam; ensure payment sovereignty, prevent tax loss. At the same time, ensuring fairness between foreign enterprises and domestic enterprises. Impossible, not suitable? Speaking at the National Assembly Hall, many delegates not only expressed their opinions but also used the right to debate to discuss this issue. Delegate Cao Dinh Thuong (Phu Tho) expressed his high agreement with the passing of the cybersecurity law to prevent and respond to threats to network security. Delegates agreed with the regulation that foreign enterprises, when providing services in cyberspace or owning information systems in Vietnam, must have their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam. According to the delegate, the above provisions will be useful if implemented in order to control data and users for investigation, crime prevention, and counter-revolutionary misrepresentation. However, the delegate wondered, if the foreign business side does not implement, what is the solution, is it to stop providing services in the territory of Vietnam? From there, the delegate suggested that there should be regulations in line with Vietnam's reality, as well as Vietnam's commitments to foreign countries and international law. According to the delegate, in order to ensure cyber security in Vietnam, the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, and the Government Cipher Committee have very heavy responsibilities. Therefore, the Drafting Committee needs to review and clearly define the responsibilities of each agency, the responsibility for coordination so as not to overlap, and easily implement in the future.reality. Delegate Pham Thi Thanh Thuy (Thanh Hoa) also said that it is very necessary to develop a law on cyber security in the context of information technology development, approaching the industrial revolution 4.0. However, the delegate suggested that some provisions should be considered to avoid unnecessary overlap in state management; avoid creating too many barriers leading to compliance burden for agencies, organizations and individuals providing services; obstruct or limit the benefits of enjoying good and legitimate services of Vietnamese people. Through studying the draft Law on Cybersecurity, the delegates paid special attention to the regulations that require foreign agencies and organizations when providing services in cyberspace in Vietnam to set up a representative office in Vietnam. . The delegate frankly expressed his opinion: ""This request is difficult to be feasible, not suitable for the actual situation, increases the costs of businesses and makes it difficult for the people to access information. Vietnam in case foreign enterprises do not set up their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam”. According to the delegate, at present, the servers of services that many Vietnamese people use regularly, such as Google, Facebook, etc., are located abroad. With current development technology, the server is not a specific machine, but according to the cloud algorithm, the server is a virtual machine, allowing users to access technology services from a certain provider, trend This direction is the forward trend, including our country. From this fact, it is required that foreign agencies and organizations, when providing services in cyberspace in Vietnam, set up their headquarters or representative offices in Vietnam to manage servers and data management. Vietnamese users are not feasible. Delegates also analyzed, if foreign enterprises do not comply with this regulation, they may not be allowed to provide services in Vietnam, greatly affecting the access to information and use of services of the foreigner. people, especially in the context that our country does not have any brands to meet the needs of people to access information and use services. Another reason given by the delegate was that, in the commitment of the World Trade Organization, telecommunications services provided across borders are services that do not restrict market access, except in some specific cases, but in those excluded cases, there is no requirement to set up a representative office or representative office in the territory of Vietnam. The commitments in the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement that Vietnam has signed are also similar. ""Therefore, if the provisions of the bill are not consistent with the commitments that Vietnam has signed,"" the delegate affirmed. Contrary to the above view, delegate Nguyen Hong Van (Phu Yen) emphasized that it is very necessary for foreign enterprises to set up a representative office in Vietnam when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam. . This will ensure national sovereignty, contribute to strict management of activities of enterprises providing cross-border services to Vietnam; ""Youtube has representative offices in about 80 countries, Google also has about 70 addresses in the world,"" the delegate added. In addition to the above content, the National Assembly deputies gave opinions on handling acts of using cyberspace infringing upon sovereignty, national security, social order and safety; on appraisal, examination, assessment and supervision of cybersecurity of information systems important to national security; network security protection measures"	
"Digital technology is at the forefront of development for many countries, the Covid-19 pandemic that has swept the world over the past 2 years has further accelerated the process of digital transformation and stronger application of digital technology to life.

However, along with the convenience of digital technology, Vietnam, like many other countries, is facing many risks, challenges and dangers from cyberspace, directly threatening national security. safety and order of society.

In particular, in recent times, the situation of leaking and appropriating personal information and data has caused many harms to citizens and society.
Personal information becomes a commodity
Personal information is the private property of each person protected by law, but now it is becoming a  commodity  that bad guys find ways to appropriate and exploit for many different purposes. In many situations it is intended to fraudulently obtain money illegally.

The Department of Cyber Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention - Ministry of Public Security said that cases of taking advantage of cyberspace to commit crimes in Vietnam, are common in forms such as organized crime and organized crime. Organizations operating in the field of e-commerce, card payment, and banking continued to increase with new and more sophisticated tricks.

Criminals using cyberspace to cheat and appropriate property are complicated with many sophisticated tricks, appropriating hundreds of billions of dong from people.

Notably, at present, illegal infiltration of databases and websites of agencies, businesses and individuals to steal data and extort money is extremely dangerous.

This type of crime tends to increase more and more, they use viruses, spyware, increasingly sophisticated and complex coded malicious code to spread through emails, pornographic websites, forums, etc. social networks, applications on smartphones to infiltrate and steal data.

According to a security firm's report, Vietnam is always ranked in the group of countries most at risk of cyberattacks. Currently, there are about 150 groups of hackers who regularly attack networks in Vietnam, over 600 websites located in Vietnam are used to carry out phishing attacks.

In the first 6 months of 2021, the Department of Cyber Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention detected 1,555 Vietnamese websites and portals attacked by hackers.

Recently, in May 2021, some hackers blatantly sold the personal information of nearly 10,000 Vietnamese people on the RaidForums.com forum (specializing in posting, buying and selling leaked information and data. rust).

The selling price of this data package was advertised at first at $ 9,000 (about VND 207 million), then lowered to $ 4,300 (about VND 99 million). The seller also requires to receive payment only in two forms: Bitcoin (0.2 BTC) or Litecoin (2.8 LTC) or through an intermediary.

Previously, in January 2021, the Department of Cyber Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention and the Office of the Investigation Police Agency, the Ministry of Public Security coordinated with the Public Security of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Minh, Thanh Hoa, Long An and Dong Nai organized a search of 7 locations, arrested 15 subjects, disabled 6 large-scale data acquisition and trading lines.

Objects have illegally collected, appropriated, bought and sold nearly 1,300 GB of data, containing a lot of information about individuals and organizations nationwide. These data are publicly sold through many websites, accounts, pages, groups on social networks Facebook, Zalo, Telegram, hacker forum raidforums.com...

A series of cases of leaking customer information happened at large service enterprises such as VNG Company, which exposed more than 163 million customer accounts; Mobile World Company and Dien May Xanh exposed more than 5 million emails and tens of thousands of payment card information such as Visa and credit cards of customers; the state of disclosing customer information for Vietnamese taxi service brokers to use to solicit customers via SMS; Customer data of FPT Company is publicly posted on the Internet…

More serious is the incident with the website of Vietnam Airlines (Vietnam Airlines) at https://www.vietnamairlines.com. On July 29, 2016, this website was attacked by hackers, changed the interface, distributed a list of more than 400,000 accounts of Vietnam Airlines members online, including full information such as: full name, date of birth, address, date of joining, accumulated points, expiration date...; Some members also revealed their working offices, phone numbers, even positions...

In a case also related to the abuse of Vietnam Airlines: 3 defendants in 2017 were investigated by the police agency, the Hanoi City Police Department investigated for the crime of  illegal intrusion into computer networks, telecommunication networks or electronic means of others , according to the provisions of point d, Clause 2, Article 289 - Penal Code 2015 for creating a virtual Golden Lotus account of Vietnam Airlines and performing fraudulent transactions. fraud from virtual accounts, causing damage to the company more than 16.6 billion.

The above cases show that the personal information and data of citizens have been and are being become goods and used for many bad purposes. Many cases have been investigated, prosecuted and strictly prosecuted by the police force before the law; prosecuted many defendants for  fraud to appropriate property ,  illegally buying and selling, disclosing information about bank accounts ,  forging seals and documents of agencies and organizations ;  using seals and fake documents of agencies and organizations  to investigate cases of appropriation related to disclosure of personal information of customers.

The common criminal tricks of these subjects are hooking up with some bank officials, taking advantage of loopholes in the management and security of customer information, purchasing customer account information opened at banks. including the business name, address, tax identification number, account number, seal sample, and signature sample of the representative and accountant of the enterprise to commit crimes and then appropriate money.

Vietnam is one of the countries with the highest Internet application and development speed in the world. The Government is now drastically directing to promote the building of e-Government, towards digital government and digital economy and has achieved many important results. Along with that, during the complicated development of the Covid-19 epidemic, the amount of time using the Internet increased, causing cybercriminals to take advantage and appropriate information and personal data of citizens.
Completing the law on protection of personal information
Around the world, the issue of personal data protection has been given great importance by many countries. According to statistics, now more than 80 countries have enacted legal documents on the protection of personal data. In particular, from May 2017, Japan issued the Law on Protection of Personal Information (APPI), Israel issued the Data Security Regulation.

In May 2018, the European Union (EU) enacted the General European Data Protection Law (GDPR). In the US, federal and state laws have been enacted to protect information, personal data is safe and tight.

In Southeast Asia, Singapore passed the Personal Data Protection Law on October 15, 2012.

In Indonesia, secrecy of private life, secrecy of personal data is a citizen's right, enshrined in Article 28G of the 1945 Constitution.

In Thailand, the legal framework for the protection of personal data is established by legal documents such as the 2007 Constitution of Thailand, specialized laws such as the Civil and Commercial Code, the Telecommunications Law, Law on Electronic Transactions… These documents all establish protection mechanisms for personal data against illegal collection, use, disclosure and transfer of information.

Before the situation of disclosure, leakage, theft, trading of information and personal data is on the increase nowadays, the assurance of security, cyber safety, information and personal data protection. Ensuring human rights is an urgent requirement, requiring both the fight against crime and the building of a synchronous legal corridor, ensuring the prevention and handling of law violations. about personal information; at the same time, ensuring compliance with the Constitution, provisions of Vietnamese law as well as international law.

Vietnam now has a basic legal framework on protection of personal information and data. The 2013 Constitution and the legal system of Vietnam in general have created the necessary foundation to protect the rights to information and data of individuals. The current law on handling administrative violations has regulations on sanctioning for a number of violations related to personal data protection with the highest fine of 70 million VND.

Article 159 and Article 288 of the 2015 Penal Code provide for the crime of “infringing upon the secret or safety of correspondence, telephone, telegraph or other forms of exchange of private information of others”, “unlawfully giving or using license for information on computer networks and telecommunications networks” can be sentenced to between 3 and 7 years of imprisonment. However, these two crimes have not been specifically and directly related to the current violations of the law related to personal information and data.

Especially, the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity clearly shows the spirit of the Constitution, the Party's guidelines and policies, and the State's laws on respecting and protecting human rights.

The principle of the Law on Cybersecurity is clearly expressed right from the concept that  Cybersecurity is the assurance that activities in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, rights and interests of the people.  legitimate interests of agencies, organizations and individuals” (Clause 1, Article 2). The Cybersecurity Law protects the right to life, freedom and personal security; the right to equality before the law and to be protected by the law; protect the right to privacy, family, residence or correspondence.

The Law on Cybersecurity protects the right not to be infringed upon personal honor or reputation, which prohibits acts that may infringe upon the honor or reputation of others, and at the same time protects the right to freedom of thought, belief and citizens' religion. The law also protects citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression.

To reduce the risk of being affected by identity theft, prevent cyberattacks, cybercrime, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, strengthen the protection of information and personal data of citizens, it is necessary to carry out many synchronous solutions, including completing the legal system on information and personal data management.

On March 7, 2019, the Government issued Resolution No. 17/NQ-CP on a number of key tasks and solutions for the development of e-Government in the period of 2019-2020, orientation to 2025, in which assigned the Ministry of Public Security to assume the prime responsibility for formulating and submitting to the Government a draft Decree on protection of personal data.

This is a key task, ensuring the legal element for the implementation of the protection of information and personal data in our country and ensuring the operation of the e-Government.
"	
"Cyberspace or the network environment may be different in terms of semantics, but essentially the same because they are all virtual spaces where people can communicate, connect, exchange and communicate with each other. The development of cyberspace/cyber environment depends on the information infrastructure in each country. Currently in Vietnam and the world in general, cyberspace is very large, the network system is widely used in Vietnam including web browsers (Google, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Safari... ); news websites (VnExpress, Yahoo! News, Zing news, VTC New…); social networks (Facebook, Twitter, YuMe, Instagram, Zing me, Youtube, Skype, WeChat, Google Plus, Go.vn...); searches and lookups (Google map, Bing, Google Docs...); utilities (money transfer, employment, email, e-cards...); Websites for buying, selling, doing business, learning, music, entertainment..

Rights, obligations, responsibilities and restrictions on democratic rights and freedoms of individuals and citizens in cyberspace

* Use, protect and exercise rights and freedoms in cyberspace

The network environment is a large space, individuals, citizens and any organization can freely express their views, connect and exchange with each other. It is an individual's right to freedom – freedom of speech, freedom of information (freedom to seek, receive and exchange information) on the internet. This is the fundamental freedom of citizens, which is respected and protected by international law, the Constitution and the law of Vietnam.

Article 11, the Press Law of 2016 stipulates the right to freedom of expression in the press, which means freedom of expression not only in the paper and video press but also in the electronic press (cyberspace). These rights of citizens include: Expressing opinions on the situation of the country and the world; Participate in the formulation and implementation of guidelines, guidelines and policies of the Party and laws of the State; To give comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for Party organizations, state agencies, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, and organizations. social organizations, socio-professional organizations and other organizations and individuals.

Similar to citizens' freedom to express their views and opinions in cyberspace, citizens have the right to access information from the network environment itself. The Law on Access to Information stipulates that citizens have the right to be provided with complete, accurate and timely information; Complaints, lawsuits and denunciations of violations of the law on access to information. The Law on Cybersecurity stipulates that one of the principles of cybersecurity protection is to  ensure human rights and citizens' rights, and create conditions for agencies, organizations and individuals to operate in cyberspace  (Clause 3. , Article 4, Law on Cybersecurity)

Thus, with the current legal corridor, individuals and citizens have the right to freely use cyberspace for personal benefits; have the right to have their rights and freedoms protected from public authorities and to actively exercise/practice personal freedom in cyberspace.

* Principles of restricting the exercise of personal freedom in cyberspace

In accordance with international standards, each individual and citizen, while using and exercising their rights and freedoms, must have obligations and responsibilities towards the community, society, the nation and people. the tribe in which I live. This means that the use and exercise of personal rights and freedoms must not affect/infringe on national security; public order, social ethics; the rights and freedoms of others. This problem by international standards is known as human rights restriction.

So why should there be a restriction? this restriction is to ensure for the common good of society, for the public interest in a democratic society; for reasons of national defense, national security, public order, social morality, and the rights and freedoms of others.

Concretizing the principle of restricting the exercise of personal rights and freedoms, the Law on Cybersecurity and other relevant laws have prescribed by prohibited acts.

* Prohibited acts in cyberspace (Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity)

The Cybersecurity Law stipulates 6 groups of prohibited acts, including:

The first group of acts: Using cyberspace to commit acts specified in Clause 1, Article 18 of this Law includes:

Using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety, including: Posting and disseminating information in cyberspace with content content of propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (defined in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Article 16 and acts of cyber espionage; infringing on state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace (specified in Clause 1, Article 17 of the Law on Cybersecurity); Appropriating property; organizing gambling and gambling over the Internet; stealing international telecommunications charges on the Internet; violating copyright and intellectual property rights in cyberspace; Forging websites of agencies, organizations and individuals; forging and storing act, steal, buy, sell, collect, exchange forcing other people's credit card and bank account information; illegally issuing, providing, using payment means; Propaganda, advertisement, purchase and sale of goods and services on the banned list as prescribed by law; Instructing others to commit illegal acts; Other acts of using cyberspace, information technology or electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety;

- Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;

– Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism;

False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the legitimate rights and interests of the people. laws of other agencies, organizations and individuals;

- Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community;

- Instigating, enticing, inciting others to commit crimes.

The second group of acts: Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security.

The third group of acts: Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, electronic means; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of telecommunications networks, the Internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and electronic means; illegally infiltrating telecommunications networks, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases and electronic means of others.

The fourth group of acts: Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures.

The fifth group of acts: Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of the agency, organizations, individuals or for self-seeking purposes.

The sixth group of acts: Other acts violating the provisions of this Law.
"	
"On June 20, 2021,  Vietnam Human Rights Network  published the so-called  report on human rights in Vietnam in 2020-2021  107 pages long, in which 8 rights are mentioned: The right to life ; freedom and physical security; the right to a fair trial by an independent and impartial tribunal; the right to participate in the political life of the country; freedom of expression and freedom of information; the right to freedom of religion and worship; the right to work and enjoy the fruits of labor; the right to equal treatment without discrimination and the right to a peaceful life. At the same time, the report also provides 3 appendices on the so-called  list of prisoners of conscience detained in 2020-2021 ; “list of prisoners of conscience still in captivity” and “Vietnam Human Rights Award 2020”…

Still the wrong perspective

Once again, the contents of the report that  Vietnam Human Rights Network  released in the year 2020-2021 all reflect false, unobjective, distorted reality on human rights issues and interfere with human rights issues. internal affairs in Vietnam. The report said that, after more than 5 years from the date of joining the United Nations Human Rights Council, to the periodical review in 2019 according to the assessment of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, Vietnam's legal framework  still remains is not compatible with the International Covenant and Vietnam continues to violate fundamental rights, ranging from discrimination, arbitrary arrest and detention, to violations of guarantees of a fair trial to restrictions on freedom. religion, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association .

As an organization established in 1997, based in the United States,  Vietnam Human Rights Network  operates under the name of  gathering a number of individuals and organizations engaged in the field of fighting and protecting human rights.  human rights and freedoms to which all Vietnamese people are entitled as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments”.

However, in fact, the reports they give out every year are against the purpose and principles of their activities, the content of the report is misleading, reflects in a one-sided, unobjective and transparent way about the situation. the reality of democracy and human rights in Vietnam.

Legal and objective practice on human rights in Vietnam

In the guidelines, lines, policies and laws of the Party and State so far, human rights and the law on human rights are very important content, specified in the legal system. Vietnam. The Constitutions of 1946, 1959, 1980, 1992 and especially the 2013 Constitution institutionalized the Party's views on human rights, fundamental rights and obligations of citizens, in line with Vietnamese practice and standards. international standards on human rights to which Vietnam has joined.

The 2013 Constitution includes 11 chapters and 120 articles, of which Chapter II alone has 36 articles regulating human rights, basic rights and obligations of citizens. At the same time, the contents related to human rights are not only stipulated in Chapter II but also included in other chapters of the Constitution, creating the highest legal basis for everyone to enjoy, implement and protect. protect their human rights.

It is worth noting that when stipulating human rights and citizens' rights, the articles of the Constitution clearly define  everyone has rights ,  citizens have the right  to affirm the legality of the rights inherited by the Constitution. accept, respect and protect. At the same time, in order to ensure human rights in all areas of social life, the legal system on human rights has also been supplemented and perfected such as the promulgation of the Press Law; Law on Belief and Religion; Law on Access to Information; Cybersecurity Law…

In addition to perfecting the legal system to ensure human rights, Vietnam has also joined most of the most important and basic international conventions on human rights and have been codified. Specifically, joining the 4 Geneva Conventions of International Humanitarian Law in 1957 (improving the condition of wounded and sick soldiers of the armed forces fighting on the ground; improving the condition of wounded and sick soldiers and other wounded soldiers). shipwrecks of the armed forces at sea; treatment of prisoners of war; protection of civilians in times of war).

Join the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, signed on 24 September 1982; Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, signed on December 18, 1982; Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, signed on 19 March 1982; Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed on 20 February 1990; Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed on October 22, 2007; participated in the establishment of the ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights, signed on October 23, 2009, and the ASEAN Committee on the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Women and Children (ACWC), on April 7, 2010.. .

In recent years, human rights have been clearly and specifically enshrined in the Constitution and laws of Vietnam. The guarantee of human rights is the consistent policy of the Party and State of Vietnam. Human rights, civil rights in politics, civil, economic, socio-cultural are recognized, respected, protected and guaranteed according to the Constitution and laws. Achievements in ensuring and respecting human rights and The high quality of enjoyment of human rights by all people is demonstrated in all fields, in all conditions and circumstances, and has been recognized and appreciated by the international community and the United Nations.

For example, Vietnam is one of six United Nations member states that have completed most of the Millennium Development Goals ahead of schedule in 2015 and is considered a good example of the international community in practice. implementing the goal of inclusive development, leaving no one behind of the United Nations.

The Economist magazine in August 2020 ranked Vietnam in the top 16 most successful emerging economies in the world. In 2019, Vietnam was honored to be in the top 10 of the list of the most worth living and working countries in the world. Vietnam is in the group of countries with the highest HDI growth rate in the world in 2019.

According to the  Human Development Report 2019  published by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) on December 9, 2019, with an HDI of 0.63, Vietnam ranks 118th out of 189 countries. . The average life expectancy of Vietnamese people increased by 4.8 years, the average number of years of schooling increased by 4.3 years, the per capita income increased by over 354%; multidimensional poverty rate in Vietnam decreased from 9.88% (in 2015) to 3.73% (in 2019)...

According to the report of the website  We are social , in 2020 Vietnam has more than 68 million people using the Internet (accounting for 70% of the population) for the purposes of livelihood, learning, entertainment, expression and performance. their human rights, including civil and political rights, such as contributing ideas to draft policy documents, laws, and documents of the Party Congress.

At the same time, with its achievements in respecting and ensuring human rights, Vietnam is trusted as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council (term 2014 - 2016). At the 73rd session, at the United Nations headquarters on June 7, 2019, the United Nations General Assembly elected Vietnam as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for the 2020-2021 term. the number of votes is close to absolute (192/193 votes).

Recently, Vietnam has successfully fulfilled its role as the President of the United Nations Security Council in January and April 2021 with many imprints and contributions, including the issue of ensuring human rights before the COVID-19 pandemic. -19 is recognized and appreciated by the international community and demonstrates Vietnam's increasing international prestige and position.

Achievements in ensuring human rights in Vietnam in the fields of cultural, social and economic life, especially Vietnam's achievements in COVID-19 prevention and control and ensuring the right to life is a high right. The COVID-19 pandemic is the clearest evidence in ensuring human rights in the face of events and pandemics that people all over the world have to go through.

Vietnam has no so-called  prisoners of conscience .

In the report of the Vietnam Human Rights Network, there is also an appendix on the so-called  list of prisoners of conscience detained in 2020-2021 ;  list of prisoners of conscience still imprisoned ... However, this is just a conspiracy and a trick to take advantage of issues of ethnicity, belief, religion, freedom of speech and freedom of the press. , a meeting that the Vietnam Human Rights Network uses to oppose Vietnam. Vietnam does not have so-called  prisoners of conscience  but only citizens who violate Vietnamese laws are arrested, prosecuted and tried; Subjects are arrested and handled for violating Vietnamese law, investigated and tried in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code, prisoners in prisons are guaranteed their rights as prescribed by law. .

Those whom the Human Rights Network calls  prisoners of conscience  such as Nguyen Tuong Thuy, Pham Chi Dung, Le Huu Minh Tuan, Nguyen Thuy Hanh, Pham Doan Trang, Le Trong Hung, Doan Kien Giang, Nguyen Phuoc Trung Bao, Can Thi Theu, Trinh Ba Phuong, Trinh Ba Tu, Nguyen Van Hoa... in fact, these are the subjects who abuse the right to freedom of speech and press, using social networks to infringe on national security, social order, promoting propaganda against the country. Every year, the Vietnam Human Rights Network also offers a so-called “Human Rights Award” to “honor” those who are caught and prosecuted for breaking the law.

All individuals and organizations that violate Vietnamese law will of course be subject to the handling of Vietnamese law and that is also the proof in ensuring equality of rights, obligations and responsibilities. of each individual or organization. Therefore, listing the list of  prisoners of conscience  or the so-called  Vietnam Human Rights Award  every year is just a trick that the Vietnam Human Rights Network or some organizations like RSF, AI , Freedom House... took advantage of it to interfere in Vietnam's internal affairs. And clearly, once again, they proved the opposite and out of tune in their approach to human rights issues in Vietnam.
"	
Vietnam’s recently adopted Law on Cyber Security does not undermine the people’s rights to freedom of speech and expression but rather facilitates the ability for its citizens to legally exercise those rights, said Vo Van Thuong, head of the Vietnamese Party’s Central Commission for Propaganda and Education. Thuong’s comments were made in a speech given to voters in the southern province of Dong Nai on Wednesday afternoon. According to Thuong, also a member of the country’s lawmaking National Assembly, continuing advances in information technology demand the development of legislation to govern cyberspace and safeguard national security, social order, safety, and the legal rights of Internet users. “I must underline the fact that the Law on Cyber Security does not infringe upon citizens’ rights to freedom of speech and expression,” Thuong said. “By contrast, it actually facilitates the legal exercise of these very same rights. “Everybody reserves the right to speak their mind, but it must conform to provisions of the law. Freedom is not doing whatever we like,” he explained. Last Tuesday, Vietnam’s legislature voted overwhelmingly to pass a law on cyber security that regulates all activities that “protect national security and ensure public safety and order on the Internet.  The 43-article law, divided into seven chapters, will come into effect on January 1, 2019. <em>A working session of Vietnam’s lawmaking National Assembly on June 12, 2018. Photo:</em> Quochoi.vn A working session of Vietnam’s lawmaking National Assembly on June 12, 2018. Photo: Quochoi.vn The legislation requires all foreign Internet-based service providers to open representative offices and data centers in Vietnam, where the information of their Vietnam-based users must be stored. An article in the law grants the country’s Ministry of Public Security the power to demand access to any organization or company’s data system for investigation into cases where there is a perceived threat to national security and public safety. Online services, including Facebook, Google, and YouTube, will be required to remove ‘anti-state,’ ‘offensive’ or ‘instigating’ content from their platforms within 24 hours of receiving a request from the ministry, according to the law. Nguyen Phu Trong, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam, also stressed the significance of the cyber security law when he met with voters in Hanoi on Sunday. “There are people who take advantage of the Internet to instigate protests and disruptive behavior aimed at overthrowing the government,” he said. “We need this law to protect this regime,” he stressed.	
The enforcement of Vietnam’s cyber security law, which was adopted this week by its legislature, is “critically necessary” in the current context, foreign ministry spokesperson Le Thi Thu Hang told reporters on Thursday. Hang made the remark at a regular press briefing in Hanoi in response to a reporter’s question about the recently adopted Law on Cyber Security. Passed on Tuesday with an overwhelming majority of votes from Vietnamese lawmakers, the 43-article law regulates activities to “protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace” while stipulating the responsibility of agencies, organizations, and individuals. Hang said the law was voted for and adopted after “many rounds of discussion” which took into account feedback from members of the country’s lawmaking National Assembly and the public in a “comprehensive and transparent” manner. “[The law] is in conformity with the Constitution and will not hamper the implementation of the international treaties to which Vietnam is party,” she stressed. The spokesperson noted how cyber security is an important issue that greatly affects national security and highlighted that it has become a special concern of many countries and organizations, both international and regional, in recent years. Cyber attacks are increasing exponentially, both in form and scale, transcending national borders and leaving serious impacts on the economic and political stability of a country, she said. “Meanwhile, efforts to improve security in the online environment are still faced with numerous challenges, particularly due to the lack of legal institutions and capability to ensure cyber security,” Hang explained. “Therefore, the enforcement of the Law on Cyber Security is critically necessary in the current context,” she stressed. The National Assembly passed the cyber security law with 86.86 percent in favor on Tuesday. The piece of legislation requires all foreign providers of Internet-related services to open representative offices and data centers in Vietnam, where information of Vietnam-based users must be stored, in order to continue offering their services to local users. An article in the law grants the country’s Ministry of Public Security the power to demand access to any organization or company’s data system for investigation in cases where there is a perceived threat to national security and public safety. Internet service providers, including popular platforms like Facebook, Google and YouTube that are used by millions in Vietnam, will be required to remove ‘anti-state,’ ‘offensive’ or ‘inciting’ contents from their sites within 24 hours of receiving a request from the ministry, according to the law. Over half of Vietnam’s population of 92 million have access to the Internet, according to a 2017 report by the Ministry of Information and Communications.	
In addition to direct costs to handle the crisis, repair systems and pay for lawyers, cyber attacks could also result in reduced confidence among customers, affecting enterprises’ business activities, Dung added. The Viet Nam Institute of Directors (VIOD) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) held a seminar titled ‘Cyber resilience for the board of directors’ in Ha Noi on Thursday. According to attendees at the seminar, cyber threats are intensifying in Asia. Hackers are 80 per cent more likely to attack organisations in Asia, while nearly 80 per cent of internet users in Asia have not received training on cyber security. Total economic losses are estimated to reach US$1.75 trillion, accounting for 7 per cent of Asia Pacific’s gross domestic products (GDP). Cyber attacks might lead to data privacy breaches and losses in confidential information, reputation, customer trust, revenue and jobs, said Sharath Martin, regional policy consultant, ACCA ASEAN & ANZ (Australia – New Zealand). Damage caused by computer viruses caused economic losses of VND12.3 trillion ($540 million) in Viet Nam last year, according to a survey by the security firm BKAV. Digital usage is increasing in Viet Nam, said Martin, as the country has the highest number of registered domains in Asia. The mobile penetration rate stands at 144 per cent, of which, 50 per cent are smartphones. The country’s e-commerce growth was 35 per cent annually. Cyber security Ha Thu Thanh, VIOD’s chairman of the board of directors, said that network security issues should become the top priority for most of business boards. Boards of directors should prioritise cyber security risks as an issue in risk management, not just a technology problem, Thanh said. “Therefore, boards of directors should play a key role in studying cyber security risks associated with their businesses to know that if the prevention and detection of the risks in the businesses were controlled by the businesses’ management systems or not,” Thanh emphasised. Sharath Martin pointed out key insights for boards of directors. Firstly, boards of directors and senior managers should bring cyber security issues into all boardroom topics. The boards should also develop a cyber security strategy, he said. Secondly, the boards should address their cyber defensive frailties. Businesses should have executives responsible for information security. Thirdly, he highlighted the speed of detection and recovery. Lastly, he said that businesses needed to ensure that the investments in information security must keep pace with technology adoption. Within the framework of the seminar, VIOD and ACCA also signed a Memorandum of Understanding to increase the two sides’ co-operation in raising awareness and promoting international corporate governance practices to become key factors for the sustainable development of Vietnamese enterprises.	
The law, which was adopted during the fifth session of the 14th National Assembly and announced by the President on June 28, is comprised of seven chapters and 43 articles, and will become effective from January 1, 2019. The department reported that Vietnam has faced dozens of serious, large-scale cyber attacks over the past few years, directly threatening national security, social order and safety, and seriously affecting the local economy. The latest statistics from the department show that in the first six months of the year, 2,769 websites and online portals with national domains – 35 of which are managed by Party and State agencies – were either hacked, had their interfaces or content altered, or were deprived of administration authority. What is more, the Internet and some digital services and applications have also been used by hostile forces to spread calls for illegal protests and gatherings that may incite rioting or violate national sovereignty, interests, and security. Meanwhile, the dependence on foreign-origin technology devices has led to an urgent need to form a cyber security industry. CSD Director Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the Law on Cyber Security clarifies cyber security ensures that activities on the Internet do not harm national security, social order and safety, as well as the legitimate rights and interests of organisations and individuals. This is a new issue, demonstrating the National Assembly’s standpoint on protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organisations and individuals in line with national security, said Thuan. Regarding concerns related to the granting of sub-licences to telecommunications and Internet-based companies, Thuan said that the issues were carefully considered alongside consultations with the business community during the building of the law. “There are no obstacles and there will be none of the sub-licences as rumoured,” stated Thuan. Luu Binh Nhuong, standing member of the National Assembly’s Committee on Social Affairs, said that concerns about limited freedom of speech once the law is adopted are baseless as the issue is not regulated in the Law on Cyber Security, but the Civil Code. The law only controls issues related to cyber security and does not prohibit freedom of speech, said he. “Translating the Law on Cyber Security as prohibiting freedom of speech is a misunderstanding and it should not be referred to in that way,” stressed Nhuong, adding that the law only targets cyber criminals. The law only focuses on preventing and combating high-tech and cyber criminals, and matters related to security, and social order and safety are regulated in other laws, he concluded.	
Vietnamese websites were hit by more than 6,500 cyber security attacks – all either deface, malware or phishing attacks – in the first eight months of 2018. According to a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Team (VNCERT), approximately 100,000 IP addresses in Vietnam visit or access virus-infected websites daily and security vulnerability is becoming bigger every year. The VNCERT said the frequency of attacks to portals and websites in Vietnam has rose. The largest number of attacks were recorded on the domain name “.vn”, accounting for 44.07 percent, followed by “.com.vn” (36.58 percent) and “.edu.vn” (9.45 percent). Governmental websites registered with a “.gov.vn” domain were struck by 4.72 percent of the total attacks. The most common type of attack was attack to harvest data, making up 70 percent of the total. Securelist.com named Vietnam among top 10 countries hit by distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks in the last quarter of 2017 and among the top 10 nations with the highest botnet-assisted DDoS attacks with more than 637,000 computers infected with the virus. In July, the Bkav Technology Group discovered that more than 560,000 computers in Vietnam have been monitored by malware called BrowserSpy that can track users’ actions and steal their personal information, such as bank account details and email and Facebook passwords. VNCERT estimated last year, Vietnam was hit by 13,382 cyber attacks, including 6,400 malware; 4,377 deface; and 2,605 phishing attacks. On September 5, the team hosted the ASEAN CERTs Incident Drill – ACID 2018 in Hanoi to improve the capacity of ten ASEAN member states, Australia, China, India, Japan and the Republic of Korea in dealing with cyber-crimes caused by coin mining viruses	
Hackers continue to rely on phishing campaigns by using e-mail containing ransomware. Business Email Compromise (BEC) attacks are conducted fast without being monitored. It is predicted that BEC attacks will continue to increase over the course of the year, and total damage by such attempts could amount to US$12 billion, according to Trend Micro. Statistics in April and May this year showed that Việt Nam was in the top five countries attacked in this way, focusing on the finance and trade sector, said Myla Pilao, director of Trend Micro Labs at a security conference early this week. According to The Việt Nam Information Security Association (VNISA), the growing cyber security threat in Việt Nam requires Vietnamese businesses to take more proactive approaches to cyber security. Most Vietnamese enterprises are small and medium size, and fail to pay much attention to information security. To combat the growing threat, organisations should use security solutions which enable network monitoring, real-time detection and protection, said VNISA. Network security is forecast to be complicated this year and new attacks threaten businesses. Therefore, users need to be proactive and responsible on the internet to protect themselves and the community from cyber attacks, the association recommended	
Major General Luong Tam Quang, Chief of the Ministry of Public Security’s Office, made the affirmation while answering reporters’ queries about the draft decree guiding the implementation of the law at the Government’s regular press conference in Hanoi on November 3. He further explained that 18 countries worldwide have issued documents and laws asking foreign enterprises to store critical data within national territory. Among those are the US, Canada, Russia, China, Indonesia, Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Quang also cited the European Union (EU)’s personal data protection regulation that officially took effect on May 25, 2018, allowing individuals to control their personal data when joining social forums. Furthermore, the law’s regulations match capacity of businesses, Quang said, taking Google and Facebook as examples, which have respectively established 70 and 80 representative offices in countries across the world, including Singapore, Indonesia and Malaysia in Southeast Asia. They also suit the domestic legal system, covering the 2005 Commerce Law and the 2017 Foreign Trade Management Law, he added. He went on to say that such regulations do not go against international commitments, including treaties relating to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Minister-Chairman of the Government Office Mai Tien Dung said the issuance of the law is necessary, noting that apart from food security and social safety and security, cyber security relates to national sovereignty safeguarding, aiming to ensure a good environment for investment attraction. The National Assembly passed the Law on Cyber Security last June, with majority voting yes to the controversial bill. Four hundred and twenty-three deputies voted to approve the bill, accounting for 86.86 percent of those present at the assembly hall, while only 15 voted against it. Twenty-eight deputies abstained. The law will go into effect on January 1, 2019. The law requires all internet-related service providers, regardless of whether they are foreign or domestic companies, to open a representative office and maintain a customer database in servers based in Vietnam in exchange for authorisation to operate legally in the country	
In addition to direct costs to handle the crisis, repair systems and pay for lawyers, cyber-attacks could also result in reduced confidence among customers, affecting enterprises’ business activities, Dung added. The Vietnam Institute of Directors (VIOD) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) held a seminar titled ‘Cyber resilience for the board of directors’ in Hanoi on August 16. According to attendees at the seminar, cyber threats are intensifying in Asia. Hackers are 80 percent more likely to attack organisations in Asia, while nearly 80 percent of internet users in Asia have not received training on cyber security. Total economic losses are estimated to reach 1.75 trillion USD, accounting for 7 percent of Asia Pacific’s gross domestic products (GDP). Cyber-attacks might lead to data privacy breaches and losses in confidential information, reputation, customer trust, revenue and jobs, said Sharath Martin, regional policy consultant, ACCA ASEAN & ANZ (Australia – New Zealand). Damage caused by computer viruses caused economic losses of 12.3 trillion VND (540 million USD) in Vietnam last year, according to a survey by the security firm BKAV. Digital usage is increasing in Vietnam, said Martin, as the country has the highest number of registered domains in Asia. The mobile penetration rate stands at 144 percent, of which, 50 percent are smartphones. The country’s e-commerce growth was 35 percent annually. Ha Thu Thanh, VIOD’s chairman of the board of directors, said that network security issues should become the top priority for most of business boards. Boards of directors should prioritise cyber security risks as an issue in risk management, not just a technology problem, Thanh said. “Therefore, boards of directors should play a key role in studying cyber security risks associated with their businesses to know that if the prevention and detection of the risks in the businesses were controlled by the businesses’ management systems or not,” Thanh emphasised. Sharath Martin pointed out key insights for boards of directors. Firstly, boards of directors and senior managers should bring cyber security issues into all boardroom topics. The boards should also develop a cyber security strategy, he said. Secondly, the boards should address their cyber defensive frailties. Businesses should have executives responsible for information security. Thirdly, he highlighted the speed of detection and recovery. Lastly, he said that businesses needed to ensure that the investments in information security must keep pace with technology adoption. Within the framework of the seminar, VIOD and ACCA also signed a Memorandum of Understanding to increase the two sides’ co-operation in raising awareness and promoting international corporate governance practices to become key factors for the sustainable development of Vietnamese enterprises	
In an interview with Sputnik news agency, Vladimir Kolotov said cyberspace is the sovereignty domain of any country like territorial sovereignty, airspace sovereignty and territorial waters sovereignty. Moreover, cyberspace is where hostile actions take place that are just as dangerous as in real life and where terrorists exchange information, he said. He warned that many terrorists are better equipped with knowledge about cyber security than some countries in Southeast Asia. While evaluating cyber security in Vietnam, Professor Kolotov said Vietnam was ranked 100th in the global cyber security index. The low cyber security has led to some regrettable cases, he noted, saying that the opposition to the approval of the law lends a hand to the country’s cyber safety, posing risks to not only the cyberspace sovereignty but also the actual sovereignty of the nation. The adoption of the Law on Cyber Security does not violate or interfere with free speech, he said, adding that the law covers different things which are related to the infrastructure of the internet and the management of metadata. Similar laws are being implemented in multiple countries around the world, including Russia, with the purpose of protecting citizens’ interests, he said	
She made the remark at the Foreign Ministry’s regular press conference on June 14 in response to reporters’ question about the recently adopted Law on Cyber Security. She said the Law on Cyber Security was approved on June 12 with the majority of votes after many rounds of discussions which took into account opinions of National Assembly deputies and the public in a widespread and transparent manner. Cyber security is an important issue that greatly affects national security, Hang said, noting that it has become a special concern of many countries and international and regional organisations in recent years. Attacks on the cyber environment have grown fast in both form and scale and occurred across border, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of each country, she said. Meanwhile, efforts to improve security on the cyber environment still face numerous difficulties, especially due to the shortage of legal regulations and capacity of ensuring cyber security. Therefore, the building of the Law on Cyber Security is critically necessary in the current context, the spokeswoman stressed. The National Assembly passed the Law on Cyber Security with 86.86 percent of votes. It has 7 chapters and 43 articles, regulating activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety on cyberspace, and responsibilities of agencies, organisations and individuals concerned	
Speakers expressed concern that in the latest edition of the International Telecommunication Union’s Global Cyber Security Index, Viet Nam ranks 101st out of 165 nations in terms of being vulnerable to cyber attacks. “Low awareness of cyber security among high-ranking officials, system operating staff and people is the major obstacle to cyber security in Viet Nam,” said Le Manh Ha, vice chairman of the Government Office and secretary general of the National Committee for Information Technology Application. While cyber attacks could occur at any time, few State offices, organisations and enterprises have designated cyber security experts on staff, he revealed. “We must have human resources for cyber security because it has great implications for socio-economic development and even national security,” he said. “Cyber security experts must be hired and paid high wages.” Authorities estimate that around 72 per cent of mobile devices in Viet Nam are infected by viruses. “The figure once again shows low awareness of cyber security among people who use mobile devices,” said Hoang Minh Tien, deputy director of the Ministry of Information and Communications’ Department of Information Security. To improve the situation, Ha suggested that the Government encourage and support the development of cyber security human resources at companies. “We should not wait for protection from authorities. Enterprises should protect themselves first by investing in cyber security human resources.” According to a report from cyber security company Symantec, Viet Nam was among the world’s top 10 countries hardest-hit by cyber crime. It still has a relatively poor record of tracking down the cyber threats it faces: Viet Nam was responsible for 2.16 per cent of global threat detections in 2016, up from 0.89 per cent in 2015. It also suffered the largest number of cyber attacks of any country last year. It ranked second in terms of attacks on Internet of Things devices with 15 per cent of such attacks hitting Vietnamese devices, only behind China’s 17 per cent. “Traditional cyber security problems like ransomware, malware and spam are still common,” said Dr Vo Van Khang, vice chairman of the Viet Nam Information Security Association’s southern office. “But cyber security for Internet of Things devices, industrial control systems and the smart city should get special attention.” He said related authorities should complete the legal framework for information safety and cyber security, invest in and create a mechanism for training and fostering human resources, and make agency heads accountable for cyber security. “Enterprises should invest more in cyber security and work more with cyber security organisations and enterprises to improve their knowledge and acquire experience.” Speaking at the event, Tran Vinh Tuyen, vice chairman of the city People’s Committee, said HCM City would pay more attention to securing information safety and improving cyber security in the context of that the smart city project is going to launch soon. Assoc Prof Dr Duong Anh Duc, director of HCM City’s Department of Information and Communications, said: “HCM City is going to become a smart city where every bit of information will be transparent and easily accessible by local authorities, enterprises, partners and the public. It means more targets for cyber attacks and more information to take advantage of [by criminals]. We consider establishing the cyber security centre - one of the four important elements of the smart city project.” The theme of the conference was “Intelligent Security in Smart Connected World”.	
The Vietnam Law and Legal Forum, under the Vietnam News Agency, talks with Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cyber Security Department of the Ministry of Public Security, about some controversial issues governed by the draft law. Over the past few years, the cyber security situation has developed complicatedly. Series of cyber-attacks and security incidents have been reported by local media. Could you elaborate on the necessity to make the Law on Cyber Security in Vietnam today? The cyber security situation in the world and Vietnam is undergoing complicated developments. There are tens of thousands of cyber-attacks that target Vietnam’s information system happening every year. Fake news, fabrication, calumniation, aspersion, outrage, and incitation of violence have become rampant in the cyberspace, particularly in social networks. Cyberspace has somehow turned into an “asylum” for crimes and violations. Cybercrime, particularly such organized ones as gambling, organization of gambling, swindling to appropriate property, and trading in fake or banned goods, has developed complicatedly. This situation is attributable to the lack of a legal framework in the field of cyber security. The formulation and promulgation of the Law on Cyber Security aims to meet the urgent requirements arising from the country’s cyber security situation and the need to protect the national security, the State’s secrets, social order, and lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals. The Law will also help address existing shortcomings and limitations in the state management of cyber and information security and further promote the role of line ministries and functional agencies in assurance of cyber and information security. Additionally, the enactment of the Law can also be regarded as a complete and timely institutionalization of the Party’s policies on cyber security, while ensuring compliance with the 2013 Constitution’s provisions on human rights, fundamental rights of citizens and safeguard of the Fatherland. The Law’s provisions conform to international practice as a matter of fact that many countries in the world have issued their own cyber security laws. It can be said that cyberspace exists in all aspects of social life, including e-commerce. The draft law contains specific provisions requiring user data and important data to be stored in the country. So what subjects will be governed by these provisions and which data will be stored within Vietnam’s territory? As we all know, many countries have set forth requirements for domestic storage of important data, for example, the United States, Canada, Russia, Germany, China, Indonesia, Greek, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Turkey,  Venezuela, Columbia, Argentina, and Brazil. On May 25, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation officially came into force, empowering EU citizens to look up, change or delete their personal information, thus they can control their personal data when joining forums and social networks. The EU also requires service providers to inform service users of how their personal information will be used and commit to not providing such information to third parties. Violating companies may be fined up to EUR 20 million or 40 percent of their worldwide turnover. Looking at these examples, we can see that the draft Law’s provisions are appropriate and progressive. It can be confirmed that the draft Law on Cyber Security neither forces all organizations and individuals to comply with these provisions nor requires storage of all data. Based on the requirements for ensuring and safeguarding national security, social order and fine cultural and ethical values and traditions of Vietnam, the Government will specify which types of organizations and agencies and which kinds of data will be governed by these regulations. There have been opinions that these aforesaid data storage requirements do not conform to Vietnam’s international commitments and will block cross-border data flows and reduce the country’s GDP. What is your opinion? When elaborating these regulations, the Drafting Board carefully reviewed Vietnam’s commitments as well as treaties which the country has acceded to, including the WTO’s commitments and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Hence, I can affirm that the draft Law’s provisions on data storage are not contrary to or violate the country’s commitments. They also do not prevent Vietnam from fulfilling its international commitments. As we know, all bilateral and multilateral commitments have exceptions serving security, public order, culture, and community well-being. This means that interests of member states to international commitments are always upheld and respected for. There is no commitment that forces us to give up these interests. In fact, some member states of the WTO have enacted similar regulations and, therefore, set precedents for Vietnam without violating WTO commitments. As for the opinion that these regulations will block cross-border data flows, I can confirm that nothing is hindered here by this draft Law. Cloud computing technology enables data access from everywhere, regardless of whether such data is stored in Vietnam or the US. The draft Law only requires the storage of some kinds of data in Vietnam but not restrict access to such data. Recently, some persons cited statistics of the European Center for International Political Economy (ECIPE), saying that data localization may reduce Vietnam’s GDP by 1.7 percent and foreign investment by 3.1 percent. However, they seemed to “forget” that such statistics came from a report titled “The costs of data localization: Friendly fire on economic recovery” released by the ECIPE four years ago (March 2014). The report, which was prepared based on the most negative scenarios, also put forth similar forecasts for the EU, China, India, the Republic of Korea, Indonesia, and Brazil. However, reality has proven the opposite. In 2015, one year after the ECIPE gave its evaluations, Vietnam attained the highest GDP growth rate in the 2010-2015 period and has managed to maintain an impressive growth until now. The EU and other countries mentioned in the report are now managing personal data in a more and more stringent manner. So, we can see that these predictions are wrong and the quotation of such statistics without complete context is intended for unclear purposes. Thus, when there is a scientific and thorough approach to the draft Law’s provisions, one will find that the data storage requirement is conformable with domestic laws and international practice and not contrary to treaties which Vietnam has acceded to and does not obstruct activities of businesses. However, some opine that this requirement is infeasible now when all enterprises use cloud computing and server virtualization/virtual private servers for data storage. What’s your opinion on this issue? As I have said, cloud computing technology permits data to flow regardless of where such data are stored. Therefore, the data storage requirement in the draft Law is technologically feasible and will not create any obstruction. Similar rules have been adopted by many countries. In fact, according to statistics we knew, Google and Facebook have installed or hired nearly 2,000 servers in our territory in order to improve their service quality. This shows that data storage is not only technologically feasible but also helpful to improve connectivity and quality of services. At present, it is assumed that all enterprises doing business in cyberspace related to Vietnam will have to open representative offices in the country, which would cause difficulties to enterprises as they have to bear higher cost and carry out more formalities. What’s your opinion on this matter? We understand that this assumption stems from legitimate concerns of enterprises. We are clearly aware of the importance of foreign enterprises operating in Vietnam. The draft Law itself is aimed at protecting the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals, including foreign enterprises. Therefore, the draft Law’s provisions are not intended to cause difficulties to enterprises as well as will not oblige all enterprises to set up their representative offices in Vietnam. However, Vietnamese laws, including the 2005 Commercial Law and the 2017 Foreign Trade Management Law and their implementing regulations, stipulate that all foreign countries’ trade promotion organizations must open representative offices in Vietnam. We all see the fact that enterprises providing cross-border services like Google and Facebook are doing profitable business in Vietnam. As far as I know, Google has set up some 70 representative offices and Facebook 80 representative offices in countries around the world. In the Southeast Asia, Google and Facebook have opened representative offices in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. Why they have to do so if not because the establishment of representative offices facilitates their operation. The reality is that our domestic organizations and businesses are subjected to many legal regulations when operating electronic newspapers, websites, social networks, etc. They are also responsible for our security, public order, culture, social morality, fine customs and habits. However, providers of cross-border services into Vietnam are almost free of any constraints and such obligations. Therefore, the registration of legal entities by foreign enterprises in Vietnam will help us create a fair and responsible business environment. However, due to our international commitments, the draft Law does not mandate all enterprises to open representative offices but it will be based on national security and social order and safety requirements, and the Government will issue detailed regulations. By the way, we would like to thank the contributions of the public, business community and international friends who have helped us complete the draft Law through nearly 30 times of revisions. We would like to continue to receive comments and hope that people, organizations and businesses in the country and abroad to endeavor together with the authorities of Vietnam to protect cyber security, contributing to building a safe and healthy cyberspace, contributing significantly to the socio-economic development of every nation and the world.	
The draft Law on Cyber Security has been revised 14 times, but there are still outstanding controversial issues. Do you have any comments on the latest draft edition of the law? First of all, referring to the adjusted framework of the draft law, much of the contents on safety, security, technology and technique in the 14th draft edition of the law are in line with the Law on Internet Security, which came into force on July 1, 2017. However, there are two major differences concerning the management rules and the State management agencies. These two points will cause difficulties for law enforcement officers and enterprises in implementing the law. In my opinion, quite a few components on the law contradict some existing laws as well as Vietnam’s commitments to a few international laws. For example, the draft law requires foreign suppliers of telecom services or Internet services to establish a representative agency in Vietnam. Such a requirement is not regulated in any WTO documents or the Europe-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA). How do you think the component of the draft law that requires foreign suppliers of telecoms and internet services in Vietnam to have operation licences and to establish mechanisms to verify users’ personal information when they create accounts aligns with Vietnam’s commitments with the WTO, EVFTA or the Trans Pacific Partnership Agreement? I must say the requirement to open the market on telecoms and Internet services across the border has always been a very important and sensitive issue during negotiations for the Vietnam-US Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA) or the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and other future free trade agreements. Vietnam has officially committed in the WTO and the EVFTA that all cross-border telecoms and internet services are unlimited, neither the requirement of having their representative offices in Vietnam. In addition, the Chapter on E Commerce in the TPP agreement, which Vietnam signed in February 2016, says “The proposal on server location violated a commitment relating to Location of Computing Facilities (Article 14.13) in the Electronic Commerce Chapter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)”. Former Vietnamese Minister of Trade Truong Dinh Tuyen, who participated in many negotiations for the TPP and also was a signatory to the Agreement, said, “The topic had been thoroughly discussed before it was written into the TPP treaty.” That’s why Vietnam should honor its commitment. And that totally conforms to our policy to continue to integrate deeper into the international economy in the course of national development. Do you have any concerns that locating the main server abroad will complicate the management of Vietnamese agencies? I should say quite a lot of information on the social network, like Facebook, is biased and incorrect. To minimise the negative impacts of the Internet on our social network over the last 20 years, concerned Vietnamese management agencies and Internet users have used a combination of the technical measures such as firewalls; legal administrative measures; and communication and education campaigns to screen falsified information against the Party, Government and society. The Government has instructed all public agencies and organisations to practice transparency in their activities and launched movements to combat slanderous campaigns against the nation. Do you think that once the Law on Cyber Security is passed by the National Assembly it will have negative impacts on business opportunities for Vietnamese enterprises, as well as the general public’s access to information? The Vietnamese Party and Government have committed to simplifying all administrative procedures and promised to offer favourable conditions for all enterprises to develop so that the people can have better lives. I myself don’t think that when the law is passed by the National Assembly it will have negative impacts on our people’s access to information. However, if the law is approved and it has negative impacts on enterprises’ activities and the people’s access to information, then Vietnam will surely lag behind other countries and its window of opportunity to succeed in industrial revolution 4.0 will become close. The location of the servers is not as important as efforts to ensure cyber security for the data that the servers store.	
Vietnam ranks 100th in the world and lowest in ASEAN in cyber security. Last year, it suffered 15,000 cyber attacks, which caused losses of half a billion USD. In the first 5 months of this year, agencies reported more than 4,000 hacking incidents. Security risks increase 300% per year, posing severe challenges to Vietnam, which is embarking on the 4th industrial revolution. Law adoption on the right track Vietnam made the right decision when it adopted the Law on Cyber Security at last week’s National Assembly session. Vietnam’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Le Thi Thu Hang explained, “Cyber security is an essential issue as it affects national security and is a special concern of countries and international organizations. Cross-border cyber attacks are on the rise, seriously impacting the political and economic stability of countries. Efforts to improve cyber security are hampered by a lack of legal institutions and capacity. In this context, the adoption of the Law on Cyber Security was necessary.” Citizens’ legitimate rights protected The law prevents security risks and safeguards national sovereignty and interests and social order. It also protects the legitimate rights of citizens. National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan said at a recent meeting with voters: “The scope of application of the law includes national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights of organizations and individuals. Will freedom of information be violated if we give preferences to national security and social safety? These things have been calculated to ensure that personal freedom will not be harmed. The law mainly prevents and fights violations on the internet without hindering normal use of the cyber world. Lawful activities will be protected.” The new law does not restrict freedom of expression. It only lists acts which are defined as illegal by the Penal Code. Vo Van Thuong, Head of the Party Central Committee’s Commission for Communications and Education, briefed voters in Dong Nai on the issue, “The Law on Cyber Security never violates citizens’ freedom of speech. On the contrary, it enables citizens to practice this right in accordance with the law. Everybody can say whatever they want in compliance with the law. The law will help adjust interactions between citizens, between citizens and society, and between citizens and the State.” Compatible with Constitution and international treaties The Law on Cyber Security does not aim to obstruct foreign investment. It strictly regulates online businesses to create a healthier cyber environment. So, the new law is in line with Vietnam’s Constitution and does not hinder the implementation of international treaties Vietnam has signed.	
According to statistics of the Information Security Department under the Ministry of Information and Communications, 95 per cent of issues related to information security are caused by human negligence. Recently, passwords of more than 1.4 billion e-mail accounts in the world have been disclosed. The Viet Nam Computer Emergency Response Team (VNCERT) analysed and found some 438,000 accounts in Viet Nam, of which some 930 had the government domain name, “gov.vn”. At a year-end meeting on information security-related issues last year, deputy minister of information and communications Nguyen Thanh Hung said the situation of information security would continue to be complicated in 2018. Notably, hackers would use smarter technologies, including artificial intelligence. In addition to this, cyber attacks would become increasingly dangerous and more difficult to detect as hackers were likely to use advanced threats to paralyse national infrastructure, Hung said. He also pointed out one of the main reasons for information insecurity was low levels of awareness. The complexity of information technology depends on the variety of devices being used, with many users in organisations and businesses using personal devices, according to Hung. If they do not have security solutions, the risk to their information will be implicit right in the mobile device itself. Currently, with the development of technology and high speed of transmission lines, the number of internet users in the country has increased rapidly. But users’ perception of information security is low. A majority of Vietnamese people do not have the habit of using software copyrights. VNCERT director Nguyen Trong Duong said malicious software, malicious code and viruses that infiltrated computers were invisible to users. He emphasised on raising awareness of users to detect infected devices, while equipping them with cyber-security knowledge, information technology skills and routines of scanning and upgrading software. Last year, damages caused by computer viruses in Viet Nam were worth VND12.3 trillion (US$547 million), increasing from VND10.4 trillion in 2016. Ngo Tuan Anh, vice president of BKAV technology group, said attacks on Internet of Things equipment or malicious codes of blackmailing or digging out virtual money were increasing both in number and sophistication. Statistics also show that 55 per cent of users use the same passwords for many accounts, which risk password exposure. Technology experts predict that all security network threats this year will stem from attacks on internet-connected devices. Thus, besides raising awareness of users, enterprises and organisations need to apply security policies and technology. Organisations and enterprises as well as individual computer users using the internet should restrict the disclosure of personal information via mobile phones, emails and internet services. Organisations and businesses especially need to protect critical information and implement backup and recovery plans to secure website and email assets	
Discussion regulations in the law that require user data and important data related to national security to be stored in the country, and all enterprises doing business in cyberspace related to Vietnam to establish headquarters and representative offices in Vietnam, the officer said they are feasible and in line with domestic law and international practices. The regulations neither run counter to treaties to which Vietnam is a party nor obstruct businesses’ operations. According to Duc, 18 countries in the world have set forth requirements for storage of important data within their territories. They are the US, Canada, Russia, France, Germany, China,  Australia, Indonesia, Greece, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Turkey, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina and Brazil. Thus, Vietnam is not the first country having this regulation, he noted. Vietnam’s commitments to WTO agreements such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (GATT 1994), the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) and the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), as well as the Comprehensive and Progressive Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) also have regulations on security exceptions that allow the respect for and protection of national security at the highest level. Regarding the establishment of representative offices, the police general said several Vietnamese laws, including the 2005 Commercial Law and the 2017 Foreign Trade Management Law and their guiding documents, stipulate that all foreign countries’ trade promotion organisations must open representative offices in Vietnam. Google has set up some 70 representative offices and Facebook 80 representative offices in countries around the world. In Southeast Asia, they have opened representative offices in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. “If these businesses’ operations are hindered and affected by the regulation, it is certain that they will not open that many representatives in countries worldwide,” he stressed, adding that the regulation will also help create a fair business environment, as domestic enterprises are subject to many legal regulations from business registration to operation while foreign firms are not. In addition, the regulation does not require storage of all data related to Vietnam and platform data on cyber space. It only targets certain types of data related to personal secrets in special cases and data related to national security as they are the assets of citizens and the nation that need to be managed and protected, Duc said. Besides, the regulation is not applied to all agencies and organisations operating on Vietnam’s cyber space but only those providing services that can be used to threaten or affect national security. In reality, the lack of management of service users’ data and important national data has been affecting national interests and security, the general stated. At present, hostile forces, reactionary organisations and criminals are increasing the use of cyber space to harm national security, social order and safety while Vietnam’s competent agencies face a lot of difficulties in investigating, verifying, tracing and handling violations because all data are stored overseas. Furthermore, foreign businesses often show little goodwill and cooperation in providing related information, thus hindering the handling of law violations. Users’ data is an asset with unlimited usage value and an input of many economic activities that bring in high profits. While foreign agencies and organisations earn thousands of billions of dong each year from Vietnamese users’ data, the country suffers loss of tax revenue. Therefore, the regulation on data storage and establishment of representative offices will contribute to addressing these problems, he noted. Regarding the concern that personal information will be leaked due to the stipulation that competent agencies must provide users’ information to the cyber security force of the Ministry of Public Security when receiving a written request, Major General Duc affirmed that users’ information will not be revealed. Since their establishment, the specialised force of the Ministry of Public Security has managed data of citizens’ residence, identity and migration and many other fields, but no cases of information leakage have been recorded so far. The absolute guaranteeing of citizens’ personal information is both a responsibility and legal obligation of the force, he said, stressing that if the data is out, they will be strictly punished under the law. About the current cyber security situation in Vietnam, the general cited a report by the Vietnam Computer Emergency Response Team (VNCERT) under the Ministry of Information and Communications which said in 2017, information systems in the country were hit by 15,000 cyber-attacks, including 3,000 Phishing, 6,500 Malware and 4,500 Deface attacks. Last year, losses caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users amounted to a record high of 12.3 trillion VND (540 million USD). In the first five months of this year, 4,035 cyber-attacks were recorded in Vietnam. With around 637,400 computers controlled by bonnets, Vietnam was ranked fourth among the top 10 worst botnet countries. “Cyber-attacks can only be prevented effectively if there is a detailed and clear legal system to facilitate the implementation of legal measures and international cooperation,” he concluded. The Law on Cyber Security was approved by the National Assembly on June 12 with 86.86 percent of votes. It has seven chapters and 43 articles, regulating activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety on cyberspace, and responsibilities of agencies, organisations and individuals concerned.	
The Law on Cyber Security conforms with the Constitution and does not hamper the implementation of international treaties to which Việt Nam is a party, Foreign Affairs Ministry Spokeswoman Lê Thị Thu Hằng said on Thursday. She made the remark at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ press conference in response to reporters’ questions about the recently adopted Law on Cyber Security. She said the law was approved on Tuesday with the majority of votes after many rounds of discussions which took into account the opinions of National Assembly deputies and the public in a widespread and transparent manner. Cyber security is an important issue that greatly affects national security, Hằng said, noting that it has become of special concern for many countries and international and regional organisations in recent years. Attacks on the cyber environment have grown fast in both form and scale and occurred across borders, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of each country, she said. Efforts to improve security on the cyber environment still face numerous difficulties, especially due to the shortage of legal regulations and the capacity of ensuring cyber security. This made the Law on Cyber Security critically necessary in the current context, the spokeswoman stressed. The National Assembly earlier passed the law with an 86.86 percent majority. ‘New momentum’ Responding to a question about the purpose of the draft law on special administrative-economic zones, Hằng said that it was designed to create breakthroughs and add development momentum for the economy by capitalising on advantages in different localities. She said over the past years, the State of Việt Nam has worked to perfect policies and laws and taken many measures to better ensure the legal rights and legitimate interests of the people, while promoting national development and protection and actively integrating into the world. Việt Nam plans to build special administrative-economic zones in northern Quảng Ninh Province, central Khánh Hòa Province and southern Kiên Giang Province. On Monday, the NA agreed to postpone the adoption of the bill until the sixth session of parliament later this year, instead of at the ongoing fifth session. Vietnamese fishermen The Vietnamese embassy in the Republic of Korea is working with local authorities to protect the legitimate rights and interests of two Vietnamese who were allegedly abused while working on a fishing vessel in Seogwipo City, Jeju Island, said spokeswoman Hằng. She said that local police were investigating the case involving Lê Hồng Sơn and Nguyễn Chí Thắng who were working on the fishing vessel 2010 Naekho that operated near Seogwipo. The two are staying at a support centre for foreign workers in Jeju, she added. Vietnamese embassy staff visited the pair last Friday, and confirmed they were in a stable condition.	
Cyber security regulations should ensure business rights, he cyber security law should be built on a careful assessment of its impacts on businesses and ensure the development of information technology and telecommunications, according to experts at a workshop in Hà Nội on Tuesday. The draft law on cyber security is expected to be submitted to the National Assembly for discussion at the end of this month. Nguyễn Quang Đồng, an expert from the Institute for Policy Studies and Media Development, said the draft law could directly regulate and affect the rights and interests of three enterprise groups, including enterprises that produce and sell cyber security devices and technological solutions, enterprises that provide financial technology services and enterprises that provide digital solutions and services. “We believe that the proposed regulations in the draft would increase operation costs of the mentioned enterprise groups, including compliance costs, licence and administrative procedures costs,” he said. The draft law required enterprises to store data and information within Việt Nam, which had the characteristics of “data localisation”, he said, adding that this could hinder data flows between Việt Nam and other countries, and increase business costs for both domestic and foreign enterprises. The draft law’s regulations on cyber security inspection and assessment require enterprises to suspend or stop selling their products in case such products affect cyber security. The regulation is unclear and may lead to serious risks of violations of legal rights and interests, according to Đồng. This was a critical issue and needed to be considered carefully as strict enforcement of such regulations would have profound impacts on the interests and operation of enterprises, he said. He stressed that the State, enterprises and users were the three key pillars ensuring cyber security. Participants also suggested the drafting committee should clarify the concept of the term “critical information systems to national security”. Concerning cyber security standards applied to enterprises’ information systems and organisations within the private sector, they recommended that solid standards should not be forced on all enterprises. Instead, regulatory bodies should require enterprises to disclose their cyber security standards to users and customers. In terms of approach to the law, they recommended developing the cyber security law in a way that problems can be addressed individually, instead of conducting a general cyber security law. The draft should be narrowed down and adjusted to regulate cyber security of public sector only. Equally, it is necessary to consider a separate law on data protection. At the workshop on cyber security, international experience and recommendations from multi-stakeholders in Việt Nam, participants also discussed the trend of global cyber security, the importance of cross-border data flows in Asia and the development of the digital economy. According to Jon Austin, Principal Solutions Architect of Amazon Web Services, security is not related to the physical location of the data. The internet is global so any system connected to the internet, directly or indirectly, is vulnerable to attacks. “In today’s world, cyber security is really about two things: the security of the physical infrastructure where data is stored and who owns and controls the data,” he said. Lim May-Ann, Executive Director of the Asia Cloud Computing Association, said digital policies were often viewed with a risk-management lens, but regulators needed to move from this stance to one that facilitates economic growth by enabling cross-sectoral compliance and cross-jurisdictional interoperability. She recommended a holistic approach to policy design and regulatory co-ordination and accelerated progress in technical infrastructure	
The new Cyber Security Law contains stipulations designed to protect citizens from bad and harmful information, requiring both domestic and foreign providers of services on the internet, telecom networks and cyber space in Vietnam to eliminate sources of harmful information by refusing or suspending the supply of service for those sources. At present, data on net users in Vietnam has been used extensively for profit, while there is insufficient legal framework to manage the use. There have even been cases when the data were used for political schemes or law violation. Therefore, the new law stipulates that domestic and foreign providers of services on the cyber space which collect, use, analyse and process users’ personal information and other information created by users in Vietnam, must store such information in Vietnam. Foreign enterprises subject to the stipulation must have a branch or a representative office in Vietnam. Experts agree that the stipulation is in accordance with domestic law, international practice and it neither runs counter to international agreements to which Vietnam is a member nor hinders the operation of enterprises. Major General Nguyen Minh Duc, Director of the Police Science Institute under the People’s Police Academy, noted that there have been 18 countries in the world which require the storage of data inside their territories, including the US, Russia and China. Regarding the stipulation on representative offices, he cited existing regulations that require foreign trade promotion organisations to open representative offices in Vietnam. In addition, the law does not require the storage of all Vietnam-related data and platform data, but only some specific types that are related to personal secrets when necessary, and to national security, because such data are property of citizens and the country, which need to be managed and protected. Furthermore, the stipulation does not apply to all agencies, organisations operating in Vietnam’s cyber space, but only to a number of agencies and organisations providing services that are vulnerable to abuse or that can affect national security. According to Nguyen Thanh Hong, standing member of the National Assembly’s Committee on National Defence and Security, such stipulations are necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organisations and companies. Hong pointed out that preventative measures are needed to prevent social network service providers from using individuals’ information for illegal purposes, thus violating the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organisations and businesses. Many people have expressed concern about the possible leakage of personal information as a result of the Cyber Security Law’s stipulation that relevant agencies must supply users’ information to the Public Security Ministry’s cyber security force when there is a written request. However, Major General Duc affirmed that information leakage is impossible. “Ensuring absolute secret of citizens’ personal information is both a responsibility and legal obligation,” he said, noting that any leakage of information will be strictly dealt with in accordance with the law. The Cyber Security Law was adopted by the 14th National Assembly at its 5th session, and will take effect on January 1, 2019	
The Law on Cyber Security is an important, much needed legal framework for authorised forces to be able to tackle risks and challenges from cyber space in a timely and effective manner, according to the Ministry of Public Security’s Cyber Security Department (CSD). The law, which was adopted during the fifth session of the 14th National Assembly and announced by the President on June 28, is comprised of seven chapters and 43 articles, and will become effective from January 1, 2019. The department reported that Vietnam has faced dozens of serious, large-scale cyber attacks over the past few years, directly threatening national security, social order and safety, and seriously affecting the local economy. The latest statistics from the department show that in the first six months of the year, 2,769 websites and online portals with national domains – 35 of which are managed by Party and State agencies – were either hacked, had their interfaces or content altered, or were deprived of administration authority. What is more, the Internet and some digital services and applications have also been used by hostile forces to spread calls for illegal protests and gatherings that may incite rioting or violate national sovereignty, interests, and security. Meanwhile, the dependence on foreign-origin technology devices has led to an urgent need to form a cyber security industry. CSD Director Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the Law on Cyber Security clarifies cyber security ensures that activities on the Internet do not harm national security, social order and safety, as well as the legitimate rights and interests of organisations and individuals. This is a new issue, demonstrating the National Assembly’s standpoint on protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organisations and individuals in line with national security, said Thuan. Regarding concerns related to the granting of sub-licences to telecommunications and Internet-based companies, Thuan said that the issues were carefully considered alongside consultations with the business community during the building of the law. “There are no obstacles and there will be none of the sub-licences as rumoured,” stated Thuan. Luu Binh Nhuong, standing member of the National Assembly’s Committee on Social Affairs, said that concerns about limited freedom of speech once the law is adopted are baseless as the issue is not regulated in the Law on Cyber Security, but the Civil Code. The law only controls issues related to cyber security and does not prohibit freedom of speech, said he. “Translating the Law on Cyber Security as prohibiting freedom of speech is a misunderstanding and it should not be referred to in that way,” stressed Nhuong, adding that the law only targets cyber criminals. The law only focuses on preventing and combating high-tech and cyber criminals, and matters related to security, and social order and safety are regulated in other laws, he concluded	
The Law on Cyber Security, which was recently adopted at the fifth session of the 14th National Assembly, is expected to remedy shortcomings and loopholes in Vietnam’s legal corridors, thus helping to ensure a secure and safe cyberspace. The law does not ban social network users from raising their voices or expressing their standpoints. However, social network users have to abide by the Constitution and legal regulations. The Law on Cyber Security only regulates and tackles information violating regulations as stipulated in the Penal Code and other legal documents. According to the law’s Article 15, information on cyberspace classified as illegal includes anti-state information; information that excites violent disturbance, undermines security and deranges public order; information that causes defamation and slander; information that violates economic management order; and false information that causes public panics, damages socio-economic activities, hampers state agencies’ activities and on-duty persons, and violates rights and benefits of other organisations and individuals. All of such information is likely to harm national security, social order, and illegal rights and benefits of organisations and individuals as stipulated in the Penal Code. Citizens are free to express their political opinions and personal views but they are not allowed to make corrupt use of the rights to distort and oppose the Party and State, excites disturbance, or defame an offend others. The Law on Cyber Security also aims to enhance protection of human rights and citizen rights stipulated in the Constitution. Article 16 presents specific regulations on protecting secrets of businesses, individuals and families. Point a, Clause 2, Article 26 said that domestic and foreign telecommunications service providers have the responsibility to keep personal information and accounts of users secured. Information of Internet users is only accessed by relevant authorities to serve investigation purposes and handle violations of cyber security regulations	
The adoption of the Law on Cyber Security at the recent fifth sitting of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam is essential, according to Professor Vladimir Kolotov, director of Ho Chi Minh Institute under the St Petersburg University. In an interview with Sputnik news agency, Vladimir Kolotov said cyberspace is the sovereignty domain of any country like territorial sovereignty, airspace sovereignty and territorial waters sovereignty. Moreover, cyberspace is where hostile actions take place that are just as dangerous as in real life and where terrorists exchange information, he said. He warned that many terrorists are better equipped with knowledge about cyber security than some countries in Southeast Asia. While evaluating cyber security in Vietnam, Professor Kolotov said Vietnam was ranked 100th in the global cyber security index. The low cyber security has led to some regrettable cases, he noted, saying that the opposition to the approval of the law lends a hand to the country’s cyber safety, posing risks to not only the cyberspace sovereignty but also the actual sovereignty of the nation. The adoption of the Law on Cyber Security does not violate or interfere with free speech, he said, adding that the law covers different things which are related to the infrastructure of the internet and the management of metadata. Similar laws are being implemented in multiple countries around the world, including Russia, with the purpose of protecting citizens’ interests, he said.	
The Law on Cyber Security is in conformity with the Constitution and does not hamper the implementation of the international treaties to which Vietnam is a party, said Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Le Thi Thu Hang. She made the remark at the Foreign Ministry’s regular press conference on June 14 in response to reporters’ question about the recently adopted Law on Cyber Security. She said the Law on Cyber Security was approved on June 12 with the majority of votes after many rounds of discussions which took into account opinions of National Assembly deputies and the public in a widespread and transparent manner. Cyber security is an important issue that greatly affects national security, Hang said, noting that it has become a special concern of many countries and international and regional organisations in recent years. Attacks on the cyber environment have grown fast in both form and scale and occurred across border, seriously affecting the economic and political stability of each country, she said. Meanwhile, efforts to improve security on the cyber environment still face numerous difficulties, especially due to the shortage of legal regulations and capacity of ensuring cyber security. Therefore, the building of the Law on Cyber Security is critically necessary in the current context, the spokeswoman stressed. The National Assembly passed the Law on Cyber Security with 86.86 percent of votes. It has 7 chapters and 43 articles, regulating activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety on cyberspace, and responsibilities of agencies, organisations and individuals concerned.	
Nguyen Minh Chinh, director-general of the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security, talks to Việt Nam News reporter Kieu Van about the challenges this poses. {keywords} Nguyen Minh Chinh, Director General of the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security. — VNS Photo Kieu Van Could you please tell us about the cybersecurity challenges facing Vietnam? Vietnam has one of the highest growth rates of internet users in the world. Over two decades since connecting to the global internet, the strong development of information technology, telecommunications and the internet is creating a new opportunity for Vietnam to quickly catch up and take advantage of advanced scientific and technological achievements. It also helps accelerate the process of industrialisation and modernisation of the country, and deeper integration into the world economy. According to the department's data, as of January 2019, Vietnam had 64 million internet users, accounting for more than 66 per cent of the country's population, ranking 13th in the world. Like many countries, Vietnam has been facing threats and challenges from cyberspace, directly threatening national security and social order and safety. The spread of fake news, bad news, and false information has occurred over cyberspace, affecting sovereignty, national security, social order and safety, infringing upon the rights and legitimate interests of organisations and individuals. There have been many cyber-attacks of large scale and high intensity, with increasingly dangerous nature and levels. Many Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) have been launched targeting important information systems of State agencies. 4,000 websites with Vietnamese domain names were attacked and hundreds of thousands of computers were infected with malware in 2019. Leaks of State secrets, personal data and private lives are becoming more serious and alarming. Cyber crimes and high-tech crimes in Vietnam are increasing in size, with more sophisticated tricks and more dangerous and serious consequences. Cyber crimes include hacking social networking accounts, using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services to impersonate law enforcement staff to steal assets and credit card information, and gambling with up to trillions of dong. How do you value cooperation between the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department with Microsoft? With the anonymity and cross-border crime in cyberspace, Vietnam has identified threats that have become global problems, requiring the efforts and coordination of nations, and strengthening cooperation between law enforcement agencies and tech corporations. Over the years, the cooperation between units under the Ministry of Public Security, including the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department and Microsoft Corporation, has made good progress. The two sides have launched joint programmes and exchanged information to ensure network security and fight against crime, which have achieved good results. In 2015, the Ministry of Public Security signed a Government Security Program (GSP) agreement with Microsoft Corporation. Since then, Microsoft has regularly shared information about network security with its Vietnamese partner to support national security and combat cyber crime and high-tech crimes in Vietnam. Due to a change in the organisational structure at the Ministry of Public Security, on December 19, in Hanoi, the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department re-signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the GSP agreement with Microsoft. As a member of the GSP, Vietnam has access to cyber threats and vulnerability information and a communication channel with Microsoft's security and response teams; source codes for Microsoft products, such as the popular Windows operating system and Office suites; technical data about Microsoft’s products and cloud services; and access to Microsoft's engineers to address specific topics. What are the Ministry of Public Security’s plans for the future? Currently, the Vietnamese Government is aggressively directing the implementation of e-government towards a digital government and digital economy, which has achieved positive results. In the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) and information technology increasingly being applied by ministries, departments, State agencies and localities, this creates a momentum for the strong development of the economy and society. GSP cooperation between Microsoft and the department include dissemination to the community, implementing application and enhancing State management of network security. This helps raise awareness and promotes the application of new technology, replacing old software and removing non-copyrighted software. In addition, through this cooperation, we will also strengthen the fight against all kinds of crimes including software piracy in Vietnam.	
The total number of cyber-attacks causing problems on information systems in Vietnam was 6,641 in the first six months. On average, there are more than 256 attacks on domestic systems every week. The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) said that out of 6,641 cyber attacks, there were 1,696 incidents of phishing attacks, 859 defacement incidents and 4,086 malware attacks. Statistics of the Authority of Information Security (AIS) showed that the total number of cyberattacks causing problems on systems in Vietnam in the first half of the year decreased by 2.54% compared to the last six months of last year and rose by 127.82% compared to the first six months of last year. On average, information systems in Vietnam suffered 1,107 incidents of cyber attacks every month in the first six months of the year, a year-on-year growth of 36.5%. The increase in cyber attack incidents in the first half of the year was mainly due to the sharp growth in phishing attacks, which appeared more on scam websites and apps on social networks, said AIS. To ensure information security for Vietnamese information systems and cyberspace, in the coming time, AIS will continue to monitor and actively scan, evaluate, make statistics and boost communications and warnings so that users know and avoid the risks of cyber attacks; while also focusing on urging agencies and units to review vulnerabilities and signs of attacks. As for online fraud, AIS will organise a communications campaign to raise people's awareness, implement solutions, such as putting into operation a portal for people's information security, and developing a page to provide information on typical scams to help people recognise the current fraud methods in Vietnam and beyond.	
The total number of cyber-attacks causing problems on information systems in Việt Nam was 6,641 in the first six months. On average, there are more than 256 attacks on domestic systems every week. The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) said that out of 6,641 cyber attacks, there were 1,696 incidents of phishing attacks, 859 defacement incidents and 4,086 malware attacks. Statistics of the Authority of Information Security (AIS) showed that the total number of cyberattacks causing problems on systems in Việt Nam in the first half of the year decreased by 2.54 per cent compared to the last six months of last year and rose by 127.82 per cent compared to the first six months of last year. On average, information systems in Việt Nam suffered 1,107 incidents of cyber attacks every month in the first six months of the year, a year-on-year growth of 36.5 per cent. The increase in cyber attack incidents in the first half of the year was mainly due to the sharp growth in phishing attacks, which appeared more on scam websites and apps on social networks, said AIS. To ensure information security for Vietnamese information systems and cyberspace, in the coming time, AIS will continue to monitor and actively scan, evaluate, make statistics and boost communications and warnings so that users know and avoid the risks of cyber attacks; while also focusing on urging agencies and units to review vulnerabilities and signs of attacks. As for online fraud, AIS will organise a communications campaign to raise people's awareness, implement solutions, such as putting into operation a portal for people's information security, and developing a page to provide information on typical scams to help people recognise the current fraud methods in Việt Nam and beyond.	
Minister of Public Security Gen. To Lam on August 10 stressed the need for each individual to protect personal information, especially on the cyberspace, when responding to deputies’ queries regarding the disclosure and sale of personal information on social networks at a Q&A session during the National Assembly (NA) Standing Committee’s 14th meeting. Lam said that the problem of personal information disclosure in the world and Vietnam is alarming, while the legal corridor on this issue has not been completed, and people's awareness of personal information protection remains low. Therefore, the Ministry of Public Security has implemented a number of solutions, firstly building and perfecting the legal corridor on personal data protection. He said that the ministry is submitting to the Government for approval a decree on personal data protection, and plans to study and consult the Government to submit to the NA for the promulgation of a law on personal data protection. The minister also stressed the importance of stepping up dissemination to raise public awareness of protecting personal information. According to him, the ministry is dealing with thousands of attacks on the national population database system, with many from outside the country. Answering the question of deputy Cam Thi Man from Thanh Hoa province about limitations in the field of cybersecurity, Lam emphasised five problems, including an incomplete legal corridor; unpractical coordination between units and agencies in cybersecurity; ineffective and untimely inspections on cybersecurity; most platforms, over-the-top (OTT) media service, and social networking applications of foreign legal entities not having representative offices in Vietnam; and loopholes in the management of services that are at high risk of losing cybersecurity such as virtual currency, trading of junk SIMs, and virtual bank cards. Accordingly, the ministry will promote activities of the National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety, perfect the inter-sectoral coordination mechanism to handle cases concertedly, complete the legal corridor, and raise the qualifications and equipment of the cybersecurity and high-tech crime prevention and control forces, added Lam. Individuals should be aware of personal information protection: Minister hinh anh 2 Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung. (Photo: VNA) Clarifying several issues of common concern, Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung said that false information on the cyberspace is currently mainly on cross-border platforms. Regarding institutional improvement, Hung stated that several decrees on the management of cross-border platforms have been revised and are expected to be issued in the third quarter of 2022.	
"Copyright issues and protecting intellectual property was the main topic of the ""Roundtable and Workshop on Online Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights"" on Monday. Experts during the panel discussion at the event on Monday. — Photo VNA/VNS Anh Duc The event was co-organised by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST), the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), and the US Embassy in Vietnam. The attendees include Marc Knapper, US Ambassador to Vietnam; Tran Van Tung, Deputy Minister of Science and Technology; Nguyen Quang Dung, Deputy Prosecutor-General of the Supreme People's Procuracy; and Doan Van Viet, Deputy Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism. ""Over the past few decades, Vietnam has become a manufacturing powerhouse, but Vietnam is also important to US companies as a market,"" said Ambassador Knapper in his opening remarks. ""One of a company’s most important assets is always its brand: when you buy US brands, you know you’re getting a quality product,"" said Knapper, ""This is the real cost of counterfeiting; not only do fake products direct sales away from the companies they are copying, but cutting corners and poor workmanship can erode the trust in a brand that the company has worked so hard to build."" According to Ambassador Knapper, the rise of e-commerce has added new challenges to protecting IP rights. ""Online shopping platforms can make it easier for fraudsters to ship fake consumer goods directly to customers’ homes, bypassing controls in physical marketplaces. Unlicensed software promises functionality at a cheaper price, but leaves users open to cybersecurity risks.  And illegal music and video streaming sites funnel profits to criminals instead of artists and creators,"" said Knapper. Knapper's opinion is also shared by Dung, who said that although Vietnam is still perfecting its legal system on IP rights, the violations still occur frequently and sophisticatedly. ""Many criminals are using technology to create counterfeits, and many piracy violators are hard to find due to the anonymity of the internet, and international law poses problems in punishing these violators,"" said Dung. ""We hope that Vietnam soon get the help we need from our international friends in dealing with IP violators,"" said Dung. To combat IP rights violations, the National Assembly of Vietnam has already passed an amendment to the Law on Intellectual Properties in June. The law will be in effect on January 1, 2023, but currently the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism has been cooperating with related authorities to enter Vietnam into two international treaties on authors' rights. The two treaties are the WIPO Copyright Treaty, which Vietnam have been a member since February 17, and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty, which Vietnam signed in July 1. ""We are also cooperating to build a decree on enacting the Law on Intellectual Properties in the future,"" said Doan Van Viet, Deputy Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism. ""Overall, Vietnam's legal system is prepared to protect copyrights, authors' rights and related rights domestically, as well as internationally."" Experts at the roundtable all agreed that to enact IP rights, especially in the digital space, Vietnam as well as its partners must work together to properly handle IP rights violators, and harsh measures should be made to prevent violations in the future. ""The US is a strong partner for Vietnam on intellectual property rights protections, and the issue draws attention from the highest levels of our leadership,"" said Knapper."	
The data must be stored for at least 24 months, and system logs for criminal investigation purposes must be stored for at least 12 months. Domestic and foreign firms need to store users' data in cyberspace within Vietnamese territories following a government decree which will take effect from October 1, 2022. Under the decree, which details the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law effective in 2019, local and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and additional services in cyberspace in Vietnam must keep data in centers that are physically located in the country, including: - Data on personal information of service users in Vietnam; - Data generated by service users in Vietnam: account names, credit card information, email and IP addresses, service use time, most recent logins, registered phone numbers; - Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam includes friends and groups the user interacts with online. The form of storage will be decided by the business and the data retention period starts and ends in line with the data storage request. The data must be stored for at least 24 months, and system logs for criminal investigation purposes must be stored for at least 12 months. Firms will have 12 months to set up local data storage and local offices after being notified by the Ministry of Public Security. In early September, the Vietnamese government issued a national cybersecurity strategy in response to cyberspace challenges through 2025 with a vision toward 2030, which aims to maintain Vietnam's ranking in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) from 25 to 30 by 2025. According to a report released by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in June 2021, Vietnam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the GCI in 2020. The country took the seventh position in the Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries in the field.	
New law places several restrictions that are allowed under exceptions to WTO, FTA regulations, senior lawmaker says. Vietnam’s main legislative body, the National Assembly, has passed a law on cybersecurity that would require digital businesses like Facebook and Google to store the data of Vietnamese users in Vietnam. 423 members of parliament, accounting for 86 percent of those present, voted in favor of the law. 15 MPs voted against it and 28 abstained. The new cybersecurity law bans internet users from organizing, encouraging or training other people for anti-state purposes. They are not allowed to distort history, negate the nation’s revolutionary achievements, undermine national solidarity, offend religions and discriminate on the basis of gender and race. The law also prohibits the spreading of incorrect information which causes confusion among people, damages socio-economic activities, creates difficulties for authorities and those performing their duty, violates the legal rights and benefits of other organizations and individuals. Businesses will have to provide users’ data to the Ministry of Public Security upon receipt of requests in writing, in cases where any infringement of the cybersecurity law is being investigated. Foreign businesses will have to open a representative office in Vietnam and the government will decide the duration for which such businesses must store users’ data in Vietnamese territory. The cybersecurity law, which has been discussed by Vietnamese legislators since October last year, had raised concerns of MPs and experts that the country would end up violating its commitments as a member of the World Trade Organization, and as a signatory to the E.U.-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). There are exceptions However, these concerns were dismissed before the vote on cybersecurity law on Tuesday by Vo Trong Viet, chairman of the National Security and Defense Committee of Vietnam’s main legislative body National Assembly. There are exceptions concerning cybersecurity in WTO agreements, specifically the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), as well as in the CPTPP, Viet said. He said it was necessary that Vietnam applies these exceptions in the cybersecurity law in order to protect the benefits of its people and ensure national security. There are now over 18 members of the WTO, including Australia, Canada, Germany, France and the U.S. who require firms to store users’ data within the country’s territory, Viet said. Under the new law, Google and Facebook, which are storing Vietnamese users’ data in their servers in Hong Kong and Singapore, will have to move their virtual servers to Vietnam and open a data center in the country. This is “completely possible,” Viet said. Opening data storage centers in Vietnam will increase the costs for these businesses, but this is a necessary to ensure cyber security in the country, he added. As he’d done repeatedly on Monday, the chairman urged that all proposals in the bill are kept unchanged. The new cybersecurity law will take effect in 2019.	
In a move to strengthen the regulations in cybersecurity, the Vietnamese government has recently released a decree requiring foreign technology firms to set up local offices and store their users’ data within Vietnamese territory, taking effect on October 1. The said decree adds specific terms to the country’s existing Cybersecurity Law. It detailed the data captured by tech giants like Google and Meta belonging to and created by users in Vietnam, including account names, credit card info, email and IP addresses, service use time, most recent logins, and registered phone numbers, which must be stored within Vietnam. This includes international firms that provide telecommunication services, store and share online data and perform Internet transactions. “Data of all internet users ranging from financial records and biometric data to information on peoples’ ethnicity and political views, or any data created by users while surfing the internet must be stored domestically,” the decree stated. Moreover, information about users’ relationships, including friends and groups that users interact with online, also need to be stored domestically, according to Thu Vien Phap Luat, a website that stores legal documents in Vietnam. Following the decree, it will grant authorities the right to issue data collection requests for purpose of investigation as well as ask service providers to remove content if it is deemed to violate the government’s guidelines. The data must be stored for at least 24 months, and system logs for criminal investigation purposes must be stored for at least 12 months. At the same time, firms must complete data storage requirements and set up local offices within 12 months of being asked to do so by the Ministry of Public Security. Vietnam’s Cybersecurity Law, which took into effect in 2019, bans Internet users from organizing, encouraging, or training other people for anti-state purposes. Users are also prohibited from distorting history, negating the nation’s revolutionary achievements, undermining national solidarity, offending religions, and discriminating on the basis of gender and race. In addition, the law also forbids the dissemination of incorrect information, which causes confusion among people, damages socio-economic activities, creates difficulties for authorities and those performing their duty, and violates other organizations’ and individuals’ legal rights and benefits.	
The number of cyberattacks in Vietnam reached over 9,500 between January and September, with a monthly average of nearly 1,060 attacks, according to statistics from the National Cyber Security Center (NCSC). The statistics showed that Vietnam’s information system suffered 2,878 cyberattacks in the third quarter, up 15.5% over the same period last year. Security vulnerability is one of the leading causes of cyberattacks. However, many organizations and enterprises in Vietnam have yet to fully pay attention to warnings from functional units about serious security vulnerabilities and the threats of cyberattacks. Additionally, the limited capabilities of users and system administrators in protecting the information system have also been blamed for the increase in cyber incidents lately. To reduce the risk of cyberattacks, Vietnam’s enterprises and organizations should strive to detect signs of attacks early and ensure information security in their system, said experts of NCSC. The Authority of Information Security will update and send warnings over serious and large-scale security vulnerabilities to the relevant enterprises and organizations.	
The law, which was passed by a 91% majority of voting legislators, will require international technology corporations – including Facebook and Google – to open offices in the country and store locals’ “important” personal data. The law also requires that social media companies remove offensive content from their platforms within a day of receiving notice from Vietnamese authorities. Officials say that data centres are necessary in order to effectively address potential cybersecurity violations, with the law being described as “extremely necessary to defend the interests of the people and national security” by Vo Trong Viet, the chairman of the Committee on Defense and Security. But human rights groups fear that the law will give the government the tools it needs to effectively clamp down on free speech in the Communist country. “In the country’s deeply repressive climate, the online space was a relative refuge where people could go to share ideas and opinions with less fear of censure by the authorities,” said Clare Algar, Amnesty’s director of global operations, in a statement. “With the sweeping powers it grants the government to monitor online activity, this vote means there is now no safe place left in Vietnam for people to speak freely.” Algar added that the law would only be effective if tech companies agreed to cooperate with the government when asked to relinquish users’ private data, a request she characterised as a “human rights abuse” that she urged companies to deny. Last week, both the United States and Canada called on Vietnam to delay the passage of this legislation for fear that the law may not be in keeping with “international trade commitments”. According to the Vietnam Digital Communications Association, the law could have negative effects on the Vietnamese economy, reducing gross domestic product by an estimated 1.7% and bringing foreign investment down by 3.1%.	
"The new Law on Cyber Security, which will take effect on January 1, 2019, is set to be an effective tool to fight crimes in cyberspace, protecting citizens and national security. The Law on Cyber Security, which was adopted by the 14th National Assembly at its 5th session and announced by the President on June 28, comprises 43 articles arranged in seven chapters. The law is an important, much needed legal framework for authorized forces to be able to tackle risks and challenges from cyberspace in a timely and effective manner, according to the Ministry of Public Security’s Cyber Security Department (CSD). The Department reported that Vietnam has faced dozens of serious, large-scale cyber attacks over the past few years, directly threatening national security, social order and safety, and seriously affecting the local economy. VinaPhone readies all resources to ensure information security for its customers. Photo: Minh Quyet  / VNA In implementation of Government Decree No. 49/2017/ND-CP on management of mobile phone subscribers, VNPT VinaPhone now takes photos of new subscribers at their service counters. Photo: Minh Quyet  / VNA VNPT VinaPhone has provided 4G services in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City and 11 other provinces and cities nationwide. Photo: Minh Quyet  / VNA VinaPhone technicians at a 4G base transceiver station in Hanoi. Photo: Minh Quyet  / VNA In March, the Ministry of Information and Communications  and the Asia Pacific Computer Emergency Response Team (APCERT) organized the cyber drill ""Data breach via malware on IoT"". Photo: Minh Quyet  / VNA Ho Chi Minh City hi-tech zone applies information technology to production and business. Photo: VNP files Vietnam is set to develop internationally qualified information technology human resources and build information technology into a key sector by 2020.  In the photo: Vinasat-2 satellite of Vietnam at the Kourou launch pad in Guyana, South America. Photo: Files The latest statistics from the CSD show that in the first six months of the year, 2,769 websites and online portals with national domains – 35 of which are managed by Party and State agencies – were either hacked, had their interfaces or content altered, or were deprived of administration authority. The Law on Cyber Security with 43 articles arranged in seven chapters, provides basic content on protecting cyber security for information systems important for national security; preventing and handling violations of cyber security regulations; cyber security protection activities; and responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals.CSD Director Hoang Phuoc Thuan said that the Law on Cyber Security clarifies cyber security and ensures that activities on the internet do not harm national security, social order and safety, as well as the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. This is a new issue, demonstrating the National Assembly’s stand on protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in line with national security, Thuan said. Regarding concerns related to the granting of sub-licenses to telecommunications and internet-based companies, Thuan said that the issues were carefully considered alongside consultations with the business community during the writing of the law. “There are no obstacles and there will be none of the sub-licenses as rumored,” Thuan said. Luu Binh Nhuong, standing member of the National Assembly’s Committee on Social Affairs, said that concerns about limited freedom of speech once the law is adopted are baseless as the issue is not regulated in the Law on Cyber Security, but the Civil Code. The Law only controls issues related to cyber security and does not prohibit freedom of speech, he said. “Translating the Law on Cyber Security as prohibiting freedom of speech is a misunderstanding and it should not be referred to in that way,” Nhuong stressed, adding that the law only targets cyber criminals. Many telecommunications and network service providers also agree that the Law on Cyber Security helps create a fair business environment, benefiting both businesses and service users. Nguyen Hoa Binh, President of NextTech Group, said the adoption of the Law not only helps prevent cyberattacks but also create a healthy environment for domestic and foreign businesses to compete fairly. Binh stressed foreign businesses which are not based in Vietnam but are turning profits in Vietnam must be subject to the same management as for domestic ones. Safe cyber activities for citizens The Law on Cyber Security contains stipulations designed to protect citizens from harmful information. It requires both domestic and foreign providers of services on the internet, telecom networks and cyber space in Vietnam to eliminate sources of harmful information by refusing or suspending the supply of service for those sources. At present, data on net users in Vietnam has been used extensively for profit, while there is insufficient legal framework to manage the use. There have even been cases where the data were used for political schemes or violation of law. Therefore, the new law stipulates that domestic and foreign providers of services on the cyberspace which collect, use, analyze and process users’ personal information and other information created by users in Vietnam, must store such information in Vietnam. Foreign enterprises subject to this stipulation must have a branch or a representative office in Vietnam. Experts agree that the stipulation is in accordance with domestic law, international practice and it neither runs counter to international agreements to which Vietnam is a member nor hinders the operation of enterprises. Major General Nguyen Minh Duc, Director of the Police Science Institute under the People’s Police Academy, noted that there have been 18 countries which require the storage of data inside their territories, including the US, Russia and China. Some 72% of the population use smart phones; 68% of Vietnamese surf the internet on mobile phones; and the rate of phone ownership in Vietnam is 1.7/person. Photo:  VNP Files Buying snack food online. Photo:  VNP Files Using a smart phone to track product origin. Photo:  VNP Files Foreigners pose with young people at Happy Color Run 2016 at Ly Thai To flower garden in Hanoi. Photo:  VNP Files Regarding the stipulation on representative offices, he cited existing regulations that require foreign trade promotion organizations to open representative offices in Vietnam. In addition, the law does not require the storage of all Vietnam-related data and platform data, but only some specific types that are related to personal secrets when necessary, and to national security, because such data are property of citizens and the country, which need to be managed and protected. Furthermore, the stipulation does not apply to all agencies, organizations operating in Vietnam’s cyber space, but only to a number of agencies and organizations providing services that are vulnerable to abuse or that can affect national security. According to Nguyen Thanh Hong, standing member of the National Assembly’s Committee on National Defense and Security, such stipulations are necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organizations and companies. Hong pointed out that preventative measures are needed to stop social network service providers from using individuals’ information for illegal purposes, thus violating the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, organizations and businesses. Many people have expressed concern about the possible leakage of personal information as a result of the Cyber Security Law’s stipulation that relevant agencies must supply users’ information to the Public Security Ministry’s cyber security force when there is a written request. However, Major General Duc affirmed that information leakage is impossible. “Ensuring absolute secrecy of citizens’ personal information is both a responsibility and legal obligation,” he said, noting that any leakage of information will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law. In 2017, Vietnam reported around 15,000 cyberattacks, including 3,000 phishing attacks, 6,500 malware attacks and 4,500 defacements. In the first five months of this year, 4,035 cyberattacks were reported, including over 1,500 in February and March."	
From October 1 this year, domestic and foreign businesses operating in Vietnam’s territory will be required to store data on personal information of service users in Vietnam. Decree 53 dated August 15, which details a number of articles of the Law on Cyber Security, requires that data generated by service users in Vietnam, including account names, service use time, credit card information, email and IP addresses, most recent logins and registered phone numbers, must be stored domestically. Vietnamese people have become familiar with social networks__Photo: Internet The domestic storage of data on relationships of service users in Vietnam, such as friends and groups with which users connect or interact, is also a requirement under the new regulation. All domestic enterprises, regardless of the services they provide, will be required to store aforesaid data in Vietnam. International companies that provide telecommunications services, services of data storage and sharing in the cyberspace, supply of national or international domain names to service users in Vietnam; e-commerce; online payment; social networking and social media; and online electronic games will also have to comply with the new regulation. Enterprises may choose methods of data storage provided that data will be stored for at least 24 months. Meanwhile, system logs serving criminal investigation and handling of violations will be stored for at least 12 months. Under the Decree, foreign companies will have to set up their local representative offices or branches in the course of their operation in Vietnam. Earlier, on August 10, the Prime Minister issued Decision 964/QD-TTg to approve the national strategy for protection of cyber security and safety, in proactive response to challenges in cyberspace through 2025, with a vision toward 2030. Under the Strategy, until 2025, the Government will maintain Vietnam’s ranking of between 25th and 30th in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) as assessed by the International Telecommunications Union. At the same time, the country is expected to lay a foundation for a cybersecurity industry and cyber information safety industry and formulate an appropriate policy platform for startups in the field of cyber security and safety in the country. In light of this, there will be three to five key products and services related to information safety in the country that will dominate the domestic market and be able to compete globally. Meanwhile, the revenue growth rate of the cyber security and safety market is set to increase by 25-30 percent per annum. To realize the above targets, the Strategy figures out several major tasks and solutions, including strengthening the Party’s leadership and the State’s management of and improving the country’s legal framework on cyber safety and security. The new regulation also requires protection of national sovereignty in the cyberspace, safeguarding of digital infrastructure facilities, platforms and data and national cyber infrastructure facilities, and protection of information systems of the Party and State agencies and those of crucial sectors which need to be prioritized to ensure information security. In addition, it is important to build digital trust in an honest, civilized and healthy network environment, prevent and combat violations in cyberspace; encourage businesses to master technologies and raise their ability to actively cope with cyberspace challenges. The Strategy sets forth tasks of training and developing human resources; disseminating information and improving public awareness about cyber safety and security; raising national trustworthiness and fostering international cooperation in this field.	
Under the strategy, the Government targets to maintain Viet Nam's ranking on global cybersecurity index from 25th-30th by 2025. To realize the above target, the strategy figures out major tasks and solutions as follows: 1 - Strengthen the leadership of the Party and management of the State over cybersecurity. 2 - Complete the legal framework 3 - Protect national sovereignty in cyberspace 4 - Safeguard digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital data and national cyber infrastructure 5 - Protect the information system of the Party and State agencies 6 - Protect information systems of crucial sectors that need to be prioritized to ensure information security 7 - Create digital trust; build an honest, civilized and healthy network environment; and prevent and combat law violations on cyberspace 8 – Enhance technological mastery and autonomy to actively cope with cyberspace challenges 9 - Train and develop human resource 10 - Communicate and raise awareness of cybersecurity skills 11 - Improve national prestige and fostering international integration 12 - Secure funding for implementation Meanwhile, incident response teams of 11 priority sectors for network information security will be formed. The 11 key areas include transport, energy, natural resources and environment, information, health, finance, banking, defense, security, social order and safety, urban areas, and the Government's direction and administration. According to a report released by the ITU in June 2021, Viet Nam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the GCI in 2020. Viet Nam ranked seventh in Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries in the field.	
Under the strategy, the Government targets to maintain Viet Nam's ranking on global cybersecurity index from 25th-30th by 2025. To realize the above target, the strategy figures out major tasks and solutions as follows: 1 - Strengthen the leadership of the Party and management of the State over cybersecurity. 2 - Complete the legal framework 3 - Protect national sovereignty in cyberspace 4 - Safeguard digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital data and national cyber infrastructure 5 - Protect the information system of the Party and State agencies 6 - Protect information systems of crucial sectors that need to be prioritized to ensure information security 7 - Create digital trust; build an honest, civilized and healthy network environment; and prevent and combat law violations on cyberspace 8 – Enhance technological mastery and autonomy to actively cope with cyberspace challenges 9 - Train and develop human resource 10 - Communicate and raise awareness of cybersecurity skills 11 - Improve national prestige and fostering international integration 12 - Secure funding for implementation Meanwhile, incident response teams of 11 priority sectors for network information security will be formed. The 11 key areas include transport, energy, natural resources and environment, information, health, finance, banking, defense, security, social order and safety, urban areas, and the Government's direction and administration. According to a report released by the ITU in June 2021, Viet Nam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the GCI in 2020. Viet Nam ranked seventh in Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries in the field	
Vietnam need to focus on reinforcing its cyber security to protect important information systems of the State and businesses, experts said. Vietnam’s digital economy is expected to reach 43 billion USD by 2025. However, it has been facing many dangerous, complicated and large-scale cyberattacks. The country is among the top 10 nations most exposed to cyber attacks and malware, and ranked seventh in terms of countries with the most cyber crime victims. Vietnam recorded nearly 5,500 instances of cyber attacks in the first five months of the year, including malware attacks, phishing attempts and website defacement (changing visual appearance of a website). During a conference on information security held on June 17, Colonel Do Minh Kim, deputy head of Office 3 of the Cyber Security and Hi-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security, said that there have been many Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) conducted against crucial information systems of the State and businesses. Cyber attacks mainly make use of security holes in routers, security software, online meeting applications, and public service portals. They have caused a tremendous amount of damage to businesses’ cyber security and operations, he said. “Implementing national security strategies, and developing more cyber security products and services for locals, businesses and organisations are very important. Ensuring cyber security is among Vietnam’s top priorities to facilitate digital transformation.” Nguyen Van Tuan, information security consultant from VNPT Information Technology Company, said that information security risks can come from data harvesting systems extracting data from databases. Businesses and organisations need to be able to quickly detect anything that accesses or queries into their databases that do not follow their information safety policies, and deal with them in a timely manner. Databases also need to be kept up-to-date so that they can quickly recognise information security risks and deploy countermeasures. The conference was held in Ho Chi Minh City by the Cyber Security and Hi-tech Crime Prevention Department and International Data Group Vietnam.	
The Decision was issued to organize the effective implementation of the tasks assigned in Decision No. 964/QD-TTg dated August 10, 2022 of the Prime Minister approving the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy. , proactively responding to challenges from space to 2025, vision to 2030; define tasks, assign them to specific units; well perform the role of the Ministry of Information and Communications in presiding over, guiding and coordinating the implementation of the Strategy to improve national cybersecurity and safety capacity, realizing the vision of turning Vietnam into a superpower. country on network information security. At the same time, ensure timely, synchronous, scientific and effective implementation of the tasks of the Ministry of Information and Communications and related agencies, organizations and businesses assigned in the Strategy; clearly define tasks, assign specific implementation responsibilities; proactively and promptly solve difficulties and problems during the implementation process to ensure the completion of the set tasks. According to the plan, the Department of Information Security shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with units in the Ministry of Information and Communications with, to unify the awareness from central to local levels about ensuring network safety and security is the responsibility of the Ministry of Information and Communications. of the whole political system; in which, the National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety coordinates the coordination between 4 forces (Ministries: Public Security, Defense, Information and Communication and Central Propaganda Department). Promote the effective participation of the people in ensuring network safety and security and proactively respond to threats and challenges from cyberspace; coordinate in protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace according to their assigned functions and tasks; At least once a year, organize drills, instructions, inspection, response and response to safety and network security incidents... The Information Security Administration is responsible for coordinating with relevant units to review and compile dossiers of application for the inclusion of important information systems in accordance with the provisions of law on the list of important information systems. on national security; monitoring and early warning of violations of the law in cyberspace for the national cyber infrastructure; ensure network safety and security for the process of implementing e-Government and digital transformation; develop policies and laws on data protection in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, especially important national data according to their assigned functions and tasks... The Decision also assigns specific tasks to departments, agencies and units under the Ministry of Information and Communications; Vietnam Information Security Association; digital infrastructure enterprises; digital platform owners and information system owners; network information security enterprises; supporting specialized units of information technology/information security of ministries, ministerial-level agencies, and agencies attached to the Government; Departments of Information and Communications in implementing the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace The decision takes effect from September 21, 2022.	
An internet user browses the Facebook page of Vietnam Government Portal in Hanoi, December 30, 2015. Photo by Reuters A decree that requires international firms with services in Vietnam to store users' data within Vietnamese territory and set up local offices is expected to take effect on October 1. The decree, announced earlier this week, adds certain terms to Vietnam’s existing Cybersecurity Law. It requires that data belonging to and created by users in Vietnam, including account names, credit card info, email and IP addresses, service use time, most recent logins and registered phone numbers, must be stored within Vietnam. Data about users' relationships, including friends and groups that users interact with online, also need to be stored domestically, according to Thu Vien Phap Luat, a website that stores legal documents in Vietnam. International firms doing business in Vietnam, which provide telecommunication services, store and share online data and perform Internet transactions, among others, would be required to store data regarding users in Vietnam within the country's territory and set up local offices, the decree states. The data must be stored for at least 24 months, and system logs for criminal investigation purposes must be stored for at least 12 months. Firms must complete data storage requirements and set up local offices within 12 months of being asked to do so by the Ministry of Public Security. Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law, which went into effect in 2019, bans Internet users from organizing, encouraging or training other people for anti-state purposes. They are not allowed to distort history, negate the nation's revolutionary achievements, undermine national solidarity, offend religions and discriminate on the basis of gender and race. The law also prohibits dissemination of incorrect information which causes confusion among people, damages socio-economic activities, creates difficulties for authorities and those performing their duty, and violates the legal rights and benefits of other organizations and individuals.	
ASEAN parliament delegations called for an acceleration of digitalization and promotion of digital economy in the region on a safe and highly secure network, especially amid COVID-19 threats. Chairman of the Committee for Foreign Affairs Vu Hai Ha (center) led the Vietnamese National Assembly in the virtual meeting of the Committee on Political matters during the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly's General Assembly__Photo: VNA The statements were made on August 24 during the virtual meeting of the Committee on Political matters, as part of the 42nd General Assembly of the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly that opened on Monday under the theme of “Forging parliamentary cooperation in digital inclusion towards ASEAN Community 2025”. The meeting was held under the chair of the Legislative Council of Brunei, AIPA member parliament delegations, and AIPA Secretary General Nguyen Tuong Van. The Committee urged Governments to have programs in place to help raise awareness and protect the public in terms of cybersecurity, and concurred that the member parliaments need to further work with each other in cybersecurity issues and improving data protection legal frameworks. At the session, the member parliaments unanimously approved four draft resolutions, including: Report of the 12th AIPA Advisory Group Meeting (AIPA Caucus 12); Enhancing cybersecurity and data protection towards a resilient cyberspace in ASEAN; Fostering human security in digital inclusion for ASEAN; and Strengthening parliamentary diplomacy towards the ASEAN Community. The Vietnamese National Assembly delegation, led by Chairman of the Committee for Foreign Affairs Vu Hai Ha, has delivered opinions on some matters related to cyber security cooperation and data protection in ASEAN, promoted human security, promoted parliamentary diplomacy, and raised a number of proposals to strengthen AIPA-ASEAN cooperation in this field. In the draft resolution for “Enhancing cybersecurity and data protection towards a resilient cyberspace in ASEAN,” the Vietnamese delegation urged for a cooperation mechanism via the parliamentary channel, for sharing experience in perfecting legislation and monitoring the implementation of cybersecurity laws, and continued international cooperation in the spirit of promoting mutual understanding and action within the ASEAN Community in terms of cybersecurity. During the discussions for the resolution, Hai Ha said Vietnam was highly interested in cyberspace issues as one of the key components in the country’s efforts to bring the achievements of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to work for its socio-economic development. Vietnam passing the law on cyber information security in 2015 has promulgated the strategy on cybersecurity to realize its goals in protecting national sovereignty, interests and national security on the internet and building a safe and healthy cyberspace. Vietnam's National Assembly also adopted a cybersecurity law in 2018, marking a substantive milestone in attempts to regulate cybersecurity matters. Vietnam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in 2020, according to a report from the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), said the official. The NA official also stressed the country was respecting citizens’ rights to privacy in the cyberspace, especially as Vietnam was implementing national digital transformation to 2025 with vision towards 2030 and building e-Government. For the draft resolution of the “Fostering human security in digital inclusion for ASEAN”, the Vietnamese delegation said there should be common understanding in terms of the definition and approach to human security, in line with ASEAN Charter and ASEAN Human Rights Declaration and other relevant documents. In the face of the devastation caused by COVID-19 pandemic, Vietnam wants AIPA parliaments to boost information sharing to help contain the outbreaks and promote growth post-pandemic. The Vietnamese delegation also said that parliamentary diplomacy should contribute to promoting friendship between nations and peoples, and at the same time, have positive contributions to support ASEAN Governments in their efforts to deepen regional integration, build a rules-based ASEAN Community with people at the front and center, and together handle global issues like the ongoing pandemic.	
Việt Nam remains consistent that all targets and policies are tailored for people throughout its history, and the Party and the State have made endless efforts to let people fully enjoy human rights and the fundamental rights of citizens. Authorities in Hà Nội's Vĩnh Tuy Ward present rice to people who faced difficulties due to COVID-19. — VNA/VNS Photo HÀ NỘI — Việt Nam remains consistent that all targets and policies are tailored for people throughout its history, and the Party and the State have made endless efforts to let people fully enjoy human rights and the fundamental rights of citizens. The Party and the State have also paid great attention to promoting international cooperation in the field of human rights on the basis of equality, respect and understanding among nations. Advancements and international contributions by Việt Nam have been acknowledged by ASEAN countries, which nominated Việt Nam to become the bloc’s candidate for a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in the 2023-25 tenure. Human rights associated with those of the nation Late President Hồ Chí Minh highlighted the basic rights of humans in the Declaration of Independence in 1945, writing that: “All the peoples on Earth are equal from birth, all peoples have a right to live, to be happy and free”. All efforts in the struggle for national independence and reunification of Việt Nam over past decades were aimed to ensure that all Vietnamese people benefit fully from human rights, including the right to live in peace, independence, freedom and the right to decide their own destiny and development paths. Việt Nam has continuously strived to build a socialist state ruled by law and of the people, by the people and for the people and improve the legal system on human rights. The adoption of the 2013 Institution with a Chapter about the “Human Rights, Fundamental Rights and Obligations of Citizens” and a series of legal documents relating to human rights proved the meaningful efforts of the country and created an important legal framework to ensure human rights and citizens’ rights. Việt Nam has also spared no efforts to complete mechanisms and develop infrastructure to better ensure human rights. All socio-economic development strategies, programmes and projects are built on the basis of the people-centred approach, towards the people and serving the people. Encouraging achievements These above efforts have helped Việt Nam gain positive results in ensuring human rights, from civil and political rights to economic, cultural and social rights and the rights of vulnerable groups. The National Assembly of Việt Nam has amended and issued many legal documents, including laws relating to ensuring human rights such as the Press Law, the Law on Belief and Religion, the Law on Access to Information and the Law on Cyber Security. By contributing opinions to the process of law building, people have exercised their rights to freedom and democracy. All important legal documents demonstrate the will, interests and aspirations of people. Vietnamese people’s rights to mastery is demonstrated through the rights to vote and stand for election; the rights to freedom of speech and freedom of the press; the rights to freedom of belief and religion, etc. In order to guarantee human rights and citizens’ rights and promote socio-economic development in the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Việt Nam established the National E-Government Committee to boost the building of the e-Government and portals for State agencies to provide online public services for officials, agencies and organisations to hold direct dialogues with people and improve the efficiency of tasks relating to the receiving of complaints and suggestions of people and businesses. The Youth Union of Hải Lăng District in central Quảng Trị Province in coordination with the World Vision Việt Nam organised the first ever swimming class for local children with disabilities. — VNA/VNS Photo Việt Nam has over the past years successfully implemented many socio-economic development programmes, contributing to better ensuring human rights in these fields. The country recorded an average GDP growth rate of 6.8 per cent annually during the 2016-19 period. In 2020, although heavily affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, the growth rate still reached 2.91 per cent, helping Việt Nam become one of the fastest growing countries in the region and the world. One of the most outstanding achievements of Việt Nam in ensuring human rights is the remarkable progress in hunger eradication and poverty reduction, improving people’s development and quality of life. By the end of 2020, the rate of poor households dropped to 2.75 per cent. Việt Nam has gained impressive achievements in implementing the millennium development goals in poverty reduction and was recognised by the international community. Education and training and healthcare have been continuously improved. So far, all 63 provinces and cities provide universal access to pre-school education for five-year old children and primary education universalisation. Apart from healthcare services, Việt Nam has also implemented many measures to improve people’s health and prevent diseases such as the national programme on safe water and rural sanitation. The rate of households using safe water kept increasing year after year. Health insurance coverage was expanded. The number of people participating in health insurance increased from 3.8 million in 1993 to nearly 88 million people in 2020, equivalent to 91 per cent of the population. A resident in Hà Nội's Hai Bà Trưng District is vaccinated against COVID-19. — VNA/VNS Photo Regarding cultural achievements, the movement “All people unite to build cultural life” was promoted, the Government issued a decree on recognising cultural titles, and Việt Nam has many heritages recognised by UNESCO as cultural heritages of humanity. Particularly, Việt Nam has made great efforts in caring for and guaranteeing the rights of vulnerable groups, including women, children and people with disabilities. Children are better cared for and protected in comprehensive physical, intelligent and spiritual development and the rate of females getting access to education at all levels increased. Việt Nam’s renewal policies have created opportunities for women to take part in more in socio-economic activities of the country. Female workers get better care during pregnancy and retirement periods. People with disabilities receive better care and assistance and are given opportunities to access education and employment. The consistent goal of “No one left behind” of the Party, State and the political system has been resolutely and effectively implemented since the appearance of the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, the Party and State always consider people as both the target and the motivation for the national construction and protection cause. Not only during natural disasters and the pandemic, but in all circumstances, people are always protected and guaranteed in terms of life, assets and living conditions by authorities. International contributions Việt Nam has joined most UN conventions on human rights, including the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the International Covenant on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Việt Nam has also always strived to contribute to common, positive and progressive values of humanity in human rights through active participation in forums relating to human rights of the UN, ASEAN and other institutions. At these forums, Việt Nam proactively put forward initiatives about human rights which were highly welcomed by the international community, particularly initiatives relating to guarantee the rights of women, children, people with disabilities and those suffering due to climate change. Việt Nam was elected as a member of the UN Human Rights Council during the 2014-16 tenure. In 2016 and 2018, under Việt Nam’s initiatives, two resolutions co-authored by Việt Nam and other countries about impacts of climate change on the rights of children and women were approved by the council. Việt Nam has also actively participated in dialogues with many countries and territories about human rights such as the US, Australia, Switzerland and the EU in order to improve the enjoyment of human rights for people in each nation. Not only one of countries that have successfully advanced many Millennium Development Goals of the UN, Việt Nam is also well-known as a country implementing the inclusive development goal, leaving no one behind, of the UN. Achievements of the Đổi mới (Renewal) process and development cause of the nation together with continuous progress in ensuring and promoting human rights in Việt Nam have been recognised by the international community. With the hope of contributing more to global efforts in promoting and protecting human rights, Việt Nam is running for election to the UN Human Rights Council during the 2023-25 tenure. Việt Nam is honoured to be nominated by ASEAN countries with high consensus to become the bloc’s candidate for a seat on the council	
The Authority of Information Security (under the Ministry of Information and Communications) yesterday cooperated with Viettel Cyber Security and IEC Group to hold a roundtable discussion themed ‘Optimizing Resources – Increasing Performance for Investments in Information Security in the Digital Era’. Vietnam striving to ensure information security in digital era ảnh 1 Nguyen Duc Hien, Deputy Head of the Central Economic Commission, delivers his speech in the event (Photo: SGGP). The discussion attracted senior managers of IT and Information Security organizations to exchange experience and new trends, strategies for cyber security. It also aimed at delivering optimal solutions for investments in cyber security of businesses sited in Vietnam. Statistics from the Authority of Information Security reveal that in the first half of 2022, on average there are 44.7 cyber-attacks a day in Vietnam (a rise of 1.6 times compared to this time last year), leading to tough challenges in maintaining cyber security, especially during the national digital transformation process. Vietnam striving to ensure information security in digital era ảnh 2 Experts and business leaders are exchanging experience and new trends, strategies in cyber security (Photo: SGGP) Head of the Institute for Information and Communications Strategies Nguyen Thanh Phuc shared that the trend of uploading data onto cloud servers becomes a lucrative chance for cyber criminals. The risk of information leak or loss has never been this high, yet most businesses and organization still exercise no practical method to lower this risk and protect themselves. According to Robert Trong Tran, Deputy General Director of the Consultation Service for Technology Risk and Cyber Security (under E&Y Vietnam), the Covid-19 pandemic has forced businesses to neglect necessary security procedures, whereas cyber-attacks have become more complicated. It is wiser to focus on cyber security as much as on digital transformation, with a detailed strategy at hand. Viettel Cyber Security said that it has always followed this proposal, and has integrated its services onto one platform for ease of administration. It has also synchronized investment projects for digital transformation and information security maintenance via strengthening its technological defense capacity. The organization suggested a balanced, safety, and strong digital transformation model among the three partners of investor – digital transformation partner – information security partner. Vietnam striving to ensure information security in digital era ảnh 3 Viettel Cyber Security launches SOC Platform - its new generation monitoring and control platform. (Photo: SGGP) On this occasion, Viettel Cyber Security launched SOC Platform – its new generation monitoring and control platform. The service supports organizations and businesses to fully handle trouble in daily operations to ensure safety for these IT systems.	
On October 5, 2022, VietinBank warned clients about messages that contain associated links with malicious codes. Clients are asked to provide information about passwords and OTP (one time password), which allows hackers to appropriate their personal assets. Many other banks, enterprises and agencies in the field of information security have repeatedly advised people to be vigilant against increasingly sophisticated and unpredicted online scams. VNCERT/CC (Vietnam Cybersecurity mergency Response Teams/Coordination Center) reported that swindling via messages impersonating banks and financial institutions is increasing. Scammers not only use many mobile phone subscriber prefixes, but also forge SMS brand names to send messages to do phishing. VNCERT/CC has updated 13 more fake domain names on the websites of many banks, including ACB, SCB, TPBank and VietinBank which were seen in phishing messages received from September 27 to October 3, including online.olinacb.com, ebanking.nnykd8.com, scb.com.vn-us.club, ebanking.tyriu2h.com, scb.com.vn-uc.club, ebanking.cdgy77h.com, ebanking.uhgkf2.com, shb.com.vn-iy.info, shb.com.vn-sp.xy, ebank.ecxty39.com, ebank.hlug1k.com, vietinbank.com.vn-uz.top, vietinbank.com.vn-uz.xyz. In mid-September, VNCERT/CC named 32 counterfeit domain names that forged the electronic websites of some banks, including ACB, MSB, SCB, VPBank and TPBank. It also recommended people not to click links with the domain names forging banks. Nguyen Quang Huy from VSEC (Vietnamese Network Security Joint Stock Company) said phishing attacks sometimes are not recognized Data security still doesn’t receive the respect it should have, though most surveyed CEOs said their institutions increased budgets for cybersecurity. Experts say that cybercriminals are becoming smarter and tend to target small and medium enterprises (SMEs) because they know that large companies have more valuable information and they have stricter information protection processes. The expert from VSEC also pointed out users’ poor awareness of information security. “This is why in 2022, cybercriminals shifted from ransomware and returned to use more traditional attack methods, such as phishing – a form of swindling based on people’s low awareness,” Huy said. The increase in cyberattacks and phishing cases is also blamed on the lack of a high-quality workforce. The development of IoT (Internet of Things) devices and their popular use also offers a ‘playing field’ for cyber attackers.	
Experts will share experience in cyber security in the banking and financial sector during an exercise slated for October 11. DF Cyber Defense 2022 aims to equip officials in charge of ensuring information safety in banking and financial organisations with new tactics, the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) under the Ministry of Information and Communications said on October 5. The event will be co-organised by the Information-Technology Department at the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), NCSC and IEC Group. The organisers said more than 50 banking and financial organisations have registered to participate in the exercise, with 200 cyber experts. In a study titled ‘Cybersecurity risks in digital banking: The case of Vietnam’, Dr Phan Chung Thuy from the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, said in recent years Vietnamese banks have embraced digital transformation and security risks. The study cited Kaspersky as saying Vietnam ranks 21st in the world in terms of phishing attacks with 673,743 recorded in 2020, only after Thailand and Indonesia in Southeast Asia. According to a survey by the Vietnam Information Security Association, more than 50% of cyber attacks are aimed at banks and financial institutions. A report by the Ministry of Public Security’s Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention said that in 2020, banks lost nearly 100 billion VND (4.39 million USD) in 4,000 cyberattacks, with a single bank suffering a loss of 44 billion VND.	
Vietnam was hit by 988 cyberattacks in the first nine months of this year, according to the National Cyber Security Centre under the Ministry of Information and Communications. The figure represents a rise of 8.9% from August, and 19.9% year-on-year, the centre reported. In the third quarter, the centre detected and guided the handling of 2,878 cyberattacks, up 15.5% over the same period last year. On September 14, it launched a campaign to clean up malicious codes in Vietnam’s cyberspace. At the same time, the centre has stepped up communication work to raise public awareness of cyberattacks and preventive measures.	
Minister of Public Security General To Lam met with Gunnar Wiegand, Managing Director for Asia and the Pacific at the European External Action Service (EEAS), in Hanoi on April 28, asking for further support from the EU in cyber security protection. Lam highlighted the strong growth of the EU-Vietnam partnership across all fields, especially since the two sides set up their bilateral comprehensive cooperative partnership in 2016 and put the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA) into use last August. The deal has turned Vietnam into the EU’s leading trade partner among the ASEAN countries and one of the Asian countries that the EU has shared partnership with in all fields, including security and law enforcement, he noted. The minister highlighted that in the field of cyber security, the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security and the EU have enjoyed close collaboration with the regular organisation of conferences, training, online meetings, consultations and the exchange of expertise. He underlined that the ministry recognises and highly values the support and positive cooperation, dialogue and experience sharing from the EU in building and implementing laws related to cyber security. Lam said that during the building of the Law on Cyber Security and related decrees, Vietnam has received consultations and experience sharing from the EU in protection of personal data, he added. The official proposed that in the time to come, the EU will continue to share its experience with Vietnam in ensuring cyber security for major information infrastructure works as well as managing trans-border data and protecting data in important sectors, while increasing discussions and engagement in building and completing national legal framework regarding cyber security, national sovereignty in cyber space and cyber war, as well as introducing and transferring technologies, equipment, supporting tools for cyber security protection, and cyber and high-tech criminal prevention and combat. Regarding the EU-initiated Enhancing Security Cooperation in and with Asia (ESIWA) programme, Lam underlined that the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security highly values the outcomes of the EU-funded projects within the framework of the programme in the 2014-2020 period, adding the projects have made positive contributions to the economic development in Vietnam, making the Vietnam-EU comparative partnership deeper and more practical. He suggested that the EU increase cooperation with Vietnam within the ESIWA Programme, especially in cyber security, maritime security, anti-terrorism and crisis management, and proposed the organisation of detail discussions to sketch out specific activities to meet the demands of all sides. For his part, Wiegand said that the growing ties between the EU and Vietnam has not limited in economy, trade and investment but expanded to strategic areas of politics, diplomacy and security. The official affirmed that he will continue to work hard to reinforce and further lift up the EU-Vietnam partnership.	
SECUI, a company specialising in cyber security of the Republic of Korea (RoK), has taken its first steps in becoming involved in the security field of Vietnam by cooperating with the local leading technology company FPT Corporation. SECUI announced on April 20 that the firm had signed an agreement with FPT Information System (FPT IS) on public services, telecommunications, finance, and healthcare. FPT is a company specialising in providing services and solutions throughout the local information technology (IT) market. Under the agreement, both companies will provide cyber security appliances such as SECUI's next-generation firewall 'Bluemax NGF' and intrusion prevention system 'Bluemax IPS' to domestic companies and the financial market, as well as jointly researching and developing a service management model. Most notably, SECUI's strategy aims to dominate the local security market by providing its network security equipment to FPT Corp’s member companies, thereby expanding its coverage in Vietnam. Moving forward, SECUI will organise a seminar for FPT IS and the Vietnamese market in the first half of the year with a range of activities, including a workshop on security, specialised security solution business in the Vietnamese market. Besides, SECUI has strengthened the local partner system by signing an exclusive distribution contract with InfoPlus. The firm is not simply a typical Korean IT company that is seeking to enter the Vietnamese market, but also pledges to provide integrated IT infrastructure services to local financial companies. With the business capacity and technical support in the financial sector that Info Plus owns, SECUI hopes to achieve positive business results over the coming year. In the future, SECUI plans to expand its participation in the security market throughout Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, based on the success of the business cooperation system in Vietnam.	
Vietnam posted 1,383 cyber attacks in the first month of 2022, an increase of 10.29 percent from December 2021, according to the Vietnam National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). Statistics showed an increasing trend of cyber attack incidents on information systems in Vietnam in the context of agencies and units strongly promoting digital transformation. In 2021, the Authority of Information Security recorded, issued warning about, and guided the handling of more than 9,700 attacks on the cyberspace, an increase of 42.42 percent against the previous year. Last year, attackers took advantage of the COVID-19 epidemic to spread fake news and create more forms of phishing attacks to steal money. The leaking of personal information was also common.	
One critical matter in Vietnam at present is to ensure the security and safety of its Population Database, which is developed by the Public Security Ministry and is fully exploited by various ministries and state agencies for socio-economic growth. Minister of Public Security To Lam has just announced that the police are investigating the information leak of 30 million individuals, supposedly from the Education and Training Ministry. Before that, theses information pieces were sold publicly by hacker Meli0das. Even though Vietnam has a basic legal frame to protect personal data, the sanctions are considered too light, while the impacts of privacy infringement might be quite serious in certain cases as they can damage the honor, dignity, and safety of victims. Therefore, it is suggested to add more provisions on criminal liability for violation of personal data into the Penal Code. Some serious violations on the law to protect personal data like illegally collecting, exploiting, and selling personal data can be considered a crime. It is also necessary to increase the effectiveness of the personal data protection mechanism via civil lawsuits. The National Population Database is a national property, and thus earning level-4 protection and management. The data collection and management from central to local levels must be detailed, and specialized technical monitoring must be done round the clock to prevent cyberattacks. For the two years from 2019, the Public Security Ministry discovered hundreds of individuals and organizations in professional trading lines carrying out personal data stealing. The amount of personal data illegally sold came to 1,300GB, including different kinds of sensitive information. The Criminal Police Department (under the Public Security Ministry) has just warned the public not to post or share images of the citizen ID cards or bank accounts onto social networks, which are quite popularly and carelessly done in Vietnam. Personal information should not be provided online to non-essential services with no commitment to ensuring the safety for such information on the cyber space. During the national digital transformation process, personal data are a valuable resource for the growth of a digital society and economy. That demands an even higher level of protection for this special national asset. This is not only the responsibility of competent agencies but the duty of each individual in the community when participating in activities on the digital space.	
"Vietnam was hit by 5,463 cyberattacks in the first five months of this year, according to the Ministry of Information and Communications. The report by the ministry’s Authority of Information Security says 930 were Phishing, the type of attack that attempts to steal money or identity, by getting a person to reveal personal information such as credit card numbers, bank information, or passwords on websites that pretend to be legitimate. Deface, an attack on a website that changes the visual appearance of a website or a web page, accounted for 776 attacks. The majority of attacks, 3,757, were Malware, which is software intentionally designed to cause disruption to a computer, server, client, or computer network, leak private information, gain unauthorized access to information or systems, deprive users access to information or which unknowingly interferes with the user's computer security and privacy. In 2021, the ministry had recorded, warned, and instructed relevant agencies to handle more than 9,700 cyberattacks leading to problems with information systems in Vietnam, an increase of 42.4 percent against the previous year. The damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users was VND24.4 trillion ($1.06 billion) last year when 70.7 million computers were attacked, according to a report released in December by cybersecurity firm Bkav. According to Bkav, many Vietnamese still have the habit of using non-copyrighted software which is not updated regularly. ""Only about 10 percent of computers in Vietnam are equipped with anti-virus software capable of automatically updating and support from the manufacturer,"" said Vu Ngoc Son, vice president in charge of Anti-Malware at Bkav."	
According to the latest report of the Government Committee on Cipher and authorities, Vietnam’s information security has developed complicatedly. Attacks and cybercriminals are increasing in order to destroy information systems and steal data increasingly causing serious consequences. Statistics on cybercrime attacks in Vietnam in 2021 of Viettel Cybersecurity Company. According to the Government Committee on Cipher, in Vietnam, many key IT networks of the Party and the governmental agencies have become the target of world cybercriminals that are individuals or teams of people who use technology to commit malicious activities on digital systems or networks with the intention of stealing sensitive company information or personal data and generating profit. Mr. Do Viet Thang, Deputy Director of the Center for Information Technology and Cybersecurity Monitoring under the Government Committee on Cipher, said that in 2021, the center detected 811,902 threats of cyberattacks, an increase of 5.5 percent compared to 2020. Amongst them, 757,064 attacks are cyber-attacks aiming to exploit security holes in the electronic portal systems and the operational guidance systems meanwhile approximately 31,013 are cyberattacks related to other forms of unauthorized access. In particular, the number of detected malware-related attacks was 19,091 with many complex and sophisticated attack forms. In the first quarter of 2022, the Department of Information Security under the Ministry of Information and Communications issued a warning after recording 3,678 cyberattacks that caused problems on information systems in Vietnam including 576 Phishing, 375 website defacement, an attack on a website that changes the visual appearance of a website or a web page, and 2,727 malware attacks, an increase of 2.94 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2021 with 3,573 cases. Cyber attackers have taken advantage of public attention to the Covid-19 epidemic development, the effect of vaccination with the third booster dose to continue to increase cyberattacks, distribution of malicious code to appropriate and destroy information of users as well as organizations. From the beginning of 2022, the Department of Information Security has forecasted that phishing will be one of the four main trends in cyber attacks in 2022, along with three other prominent trends, including targeted attacks that combine different types of attacks and sophisticated measures to spread malicious code to appropriate information of organizations and individuals, attacks on IoT devices, especially surveillance cameras, attacks on Cloud platforms. The agency believes that phishing attacks will continue to be common, especially phishing attacks using Deepfake technology which are images and videos created using computers and machine learning software to make them seem real, even though they are not. According to the Department of Information Security, the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in individuals and organizations using the Internet more than ever to stay connected with others, for entertainment and working purposes and to do their shopping, so online fraud cases tend to increase markedly both in the world and in Vietnam. In addition to fraud to steal personal information, impersonating financial - banking institutions for online fraud is the most prominent. Worse, many users still have limited digital skills and information security skills, so they are easily deceived. Statistics around the world have shown that since the Covid-19 epidemic has broken out, the number of phishing attacks has increased by 667 percent. In 2021, the surveillance system of Viettel Cyber Security Company recorded the number of phishing attacks in this form tripled compared to the same period in 2020. About 2,739 phishing websites and about 2,717 fake websites forgery has been recorded. These websites often target a number of specific areas such as finance, banking, law enforcement agencies, and the media with the aim of tricking users into appropriating property.	
Cybersecurity is one of the central issues in the digital transformation of the banking system. To mitigate risks, banks must adopt synchronised solutions that include top-notch security technologies, an effective cybersecurity risk management process and a strategy to foster a cybersecurity culture, according to academics from the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City Business School. In a study titled ‘Cybersecurity risks in digital banking: The case of Vietnam,’ Dr Phan Chung Thuy and other researchers said in recent years Vietnamese banks have embraced digital transformation and it entails security risks. Typically cybercriminals attack banks’ systems to steal data or perform acts that cause losses to the bank and customers, it said. Attacks targeting customers, impersonating bank employees, malicious fake messages purportedly coming from bank links, and websites disguised as banks’ to defraud customers are also becoming more widespread, it said. The study cited Kaspersky as saying Vietnam ranks 21st in the world in terms of phishing attacks with 673,743 recorded in 2020, only after Thailand and Indonesia in Southeast Asia. According to a survey by the Vietnam Information Security Association, more than 50 per cent of cyberattacks are aimed at banks and financial institutions. A report by the Ministry of Public Security’s Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention said that in 2020 banks lost nearly 100 billion VND (4.39 million USD) in 4,000 cyberattacks, with a single bank suffering a loss of 44 billion VND. To address these problems, the scholars suggested various solutions related to process, technology and people. “The process-related solutions will focus on detailing steps in cybersecurity risk management together with detailed instructions to help banks identify and assess threats, and thus make active plans to prevent cybersecurity breaches and especially create effective incident response plans. “The technology-related solutions are built by combining modern cybersecurity tools and techniques. They require banks to adopt artificial intelligence and ‘security orchestration, automation and response’ technologies, two types of technology that are appreciated by banks around the world. “Despite its potential benefits, blockchain should be used with caution. There have been many reports recently that there are still many unknown hazards associated with this technology. “For HR solutions, we suggest a proactive approach to raising awareness and fostering a cybersecurity culture at banks.” The report also recommended that the Government and the State Bank of Vietnam should focus more on issues related to the legal framework and developing a national cybersecurity strategy. Another solution is to limit cybersecurity risks for a comprehensive digital banking model. “Based on the case of Brazil’s C6 digital bank, we recommend that authorities draft a comprehensive digital banking cybersecurity strategy. “Furthermore, cybersecurity risks can be also mitigated with the use of a three-layer risk control model. In particular, the first layer is related to operating procedures, the middle layer is related to risk control and ensuring compliance with security principles and the final layer is related to internal control.” It also offered some general advice to banks’ customers for protecting themselves against cyberthreats: by keeping personal information as safe as possible when using online banking services (installing anti-virus software and firewalls on network-connected devices), being wary of unscrupulous websites and fraudulent emails and messages and using different and strong passwords for different accounts.	
Vietnam recorded more than 240 cyber-attacks between January 29 and February 5 when the nation was celebrating Tet, Vietnam’s traditional New Year holiday, according the Ministry of Information and Communications’ Authority of Information Security (AIS). The most common type of attacks was phishing, making up 74 percent of the total or nearly 180 attacks. It was followed by malware with 60 attacks and defacement (one). The AIS also received over 500 reports about spam messages and requested mobile network operators to block close to 9.68 million spams. Computer viruses costed Vietnam some 24.4 trillion VND (1.06 billion USD) last year, data from a recent report by Vietnam-based cybersecurity corporation BKAV shows. The country recorded about 70.7 million computer virus infections in 2021, making it one of the most vulnerable to cyber-attacks in the world. Vietnam also saw a sharp increase in the number of ransomware attacks. Over 2.5 million infections were detected during 2021, 4.5 times that of the previous year.	
"Personal data pertaining to two thirds of the population is being collected and shared online in Vietnam, the government warns. In a report to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Public Security said leakage of personal data occurs due to inadequate awareness about protecting data online when sharing it during business activities. Some are even willing to trade their own data for ""technological convenience,"" it said. Both raw and processed data are collected and sold. Raw data includes lists of names and contacts at certain organizations, while processed data also includes other personal information like dates of birth, ID card numbers and addresses. The ministry said certain businesses collect customers' data and then allow third parties to gain access to it without policies or regulations to prevent it. These loopholes allow parties to continue passing data and the chain goes on, leading to widespread availability online, it said. Since 2019 the ministry has detected hundreds of individuals and organizations involved in the sale of personal data adding up to around 1,300 GB, including sensitive stuff like names of students in certain schools and their parents and bank accounts. Other data sold commonly includes mobile phone numbers and information about investors in real estate and securities markets. The report said the risk to information security is high, especially at government, Communist Party and financial entities, with hackers often using malicious codes to gain access to sensitive information and steal them. The ministry said a lack of comprehensive legal framework to ensure cybersecurity has contributed to the problem. It plans to issue a decree for protecting personal data."	
"Minh Huy, a university student in Ho Chi Minh City, said he and his family have been terrorized by phone calls demanding repayment of loans he never took. Someone has been calling Huy repeatedly over the past month, saying he owed money with high interest that will balloon to tens of millions of dong (VND10 million= $427.26) if it is not paid back quickly. When he denied ever using the service, the caller brought out a screenshot of an apparent contract with accurate personal information like ID card numbers, phone numbers and email addresses, even relevant information on Huy’s family members. ""This is information I’ve shared with multiple services online when I signed up for various accounts, but I have never submitted them to any credit service,"" Huy said. He suspects that his information might have been stored by some companies and then stolen by someone else, who used them for credit services. Low public awareness, lax data management and insufficient security measures have contributed to the leakage of personal data by millions of Vietnamese. And once they are out on the Internet, wiping them off is almost impossible. Do Huong of the northern Vinh Phuc Province said she has only been acquainted with the Internet and smartphones over the past five years. She rarely uses online services that require personal info, but does sign up for discount programs. ""Whenever a shop has a discount program, I would give them the information they requested. They are usually phone numbers and addresses. Sometimes when I win prizes, they would request me to take a photo of my personal ID card as part of the procedure,"" Huong said. Last month, she received a phone call from an unknown number. The caller said Huong is suspected of involvement in illegal activities. They claimed to be authorities and accurately gave her full name and ID card numbers. ""I was so afraid and did nearly everything they asked,"" Huong said. ""One of the calls asked me submit my bank account info. Luckily, a relative discovered what was happening and reassured me, saying it was a scam. I would have given all my money to the scammer otherwise,"" she added. Huy and Huong are among many victims of personal data leakage incidents that have come to light lately. In a report earlier this month, Minister of Public Security To Lam said over two-thirds of the Vietnamese population have their personal data collected and shared online. Lam said personal data leakage was one of the most pressing cybersecurity issues at present. Leaked data include personal information like names, gender, date of birth and addresses, ID card numbers, phone numbers and even bank account numbers. People are not yet fully aware about the importance of protecting their personal data online, and are willing to trade it for ""technological conveniences."" On social media, thousands still provide their phone numbers and addresses under threads that promise them prizes like cars and motorbikes, he added. On the other hand, businesses collect their customers' personal data for business purposes and allow third parties to access such data. These companies usually don't have tight regulations regarding this process, meaning personal data could be sold and disseminated online to multiple parties. For example, someone booking a plane ticket online may receive multiple offers for taxi services immediately after, Lam said. Insufficient security measures by service providers are another factor behind users’ data being leaked online, he added. ""Many systems don’t pay too much attention to security, leading to lax management and security vulnerabilities,"" said Nguyen Minh Duc, founder of cybersecurity firm CyRadar. In recent times, major Vietnamese service providers have begun to invest heavily in security and protection of users’ data. But not all of them do so, he said. The fact that information like phone numbers, email addresses and ID card numbers are static makes it difficult for them to be wiped off the Internet once they have been stolen and added to hackers’ databases, he added. ""Another alarming problem is the fact that employees of certain companies are actively allowing their customers’ data to be sold and leaked,"" Duc said. Black data markets Before it was closed down earlier this year, Raidforum, a forum which displayed databases leaked by hackers, had dozens of threads selling the information of Vietnamese users every year. These included everything from gigabytes of ID card information or even data used for cryptocurrency verification purposes. A report by the public security ministry said hundreds of individuals and organizations have been involved in the sale of personal data in the 2019-2020 period. The amount of data being collected and illegally sold reached around 1,300 GB, the report said. In 2019, 50 million records of Vietnamese users were leaked from Facebook servers, and the data was still in circulation even to this day. In July, a hacker put the school data of 30 million Vietnamese online, including emails, phone numbers, full names and addresses. The hacker claimed to have taken the data from a major database by a Vietnamese education website. Ngo Minh Hieu, founder of an anti-scam cybersecurity project, said that once ""data markets"" like Raidforum were closed down, data brokers switch to messaging platforms like Telegram thanks to their anonymity and convenience. Through these platforms, databases of all shapes and sizes can be put on sale, he added. The sale of information can be very easy to pull off, Hieu said, adding that anyone can buy it with a small amount of money. For example, a database with ID card information could be sold with for a mere VND5,000 (21 cents). People can also sort databases using filters for gender or relevancy, he added. ""In some hackers’ forums, data is even shared for free or at dirt-cheap prices. Users are the ones who pay the price for having their data leaked,"" Hieu said. As a former black-hat hacker, Hieu said he understood that victims of data leaks can be terrorized by endless phone calls, messages and spam emails. They can also be tricked through social engineering schemes so more data could be collected for future attacks. There were victims who’ve had to beg for help after having their data stolen and manipulated because their careers and relationships with other people were being affected, he added. ""Try not to, and think very carefully before you share any personal information online. Because once that information is out on the Internet, it would be very difficult to wipe it off. It will be out of users’ control,"" Hieu warned. The public security ministry is now discussing with the government a decree to protect personal data. ""It would be a key solution to prevent and fight data leaks and sale,"" Lam said."	
"dentity theft is not a new crime in the financial and banking scene, but insiders said a new twist on an old problem that banks and clients should worry about, exposes the need for heightened cybersecurity. Truong Duc Luong, Chairman of the Vietnam Network Security JSC, revealed that dangerous actors could use SEO (search engine optimisation) to improve their websites' ranking in search results when people look up information online. The better visibility the websites have in search engines, the more likely that they garner more clicks and attract more prospective victims. Once visitors click on the websites, they are vulnerable to malicious schemes resulting in financial loss and identity theft. Another tactic is using the online ads network to spread malicious links. Gullible users clicking on the links have their browsers hijacked by fake warnings. They fall victim to various scams if they follow the links' instructions. The chairman urged banks to use brand-listening tools to analyse public opinion about their brands on social media, whereby they could track down malicious websites imitating their official ones. Informative campaigns could also be launched to keep bank clients well-informed about identity theft and increase their vigilance against suspicious websites. Ngo Tuan Anh, Vice Chairman of the Vietnam Information Security Association, said that cyber-criminals normally transfer their scammed money to various bank accounts and use it to buy cryptocurrencies to hide the trail. Once the money has been laundered into cryptocurrencies, the damage is done, and it is difficult to recuperate the loss. Hence, scam victims must report their cases to banks as quickly as possible to prevent further loss and maximise recovered money. ""We should develop a mechanism that allows instant reports to help scam victims get back their money as much as possible,"" he said. Van Anh Tuan, senior manager of the Information Security Administration at Techcombank, claimed that banks have been investing massively in cybersecurity to prevent impersonation and have had success. In the past, fraudsters could easily impersonate someone and steal money from their bank accounts once they got their username, password and OTP code. It is no longer the case now, as bank clients will receive warnings from security systems when fraudsters try to access their bank accounts via an unknown device, adding another layer of security to banking transactions. The manager gave some tips to help bank clients stay ahead of scammers. Clients should search for unknown phone numbers on Google. If a phone number claims to be of a bank employee, ask for credentials. A good Google search sometimes proves highly effective against impersonators. Nguyen Thanh Dat, deputy director of the Vietnam Cyberspace Security Technology SJC, remarked that bank clients normally do not know what to do and where to call for help when they fall prey to scams. For that reason, he suggested an easy-to-memorise hotline number via which scam victims could report their cases to banks and seek assistance from bank staff more efficiently. ""Bank clients should be more cautious online. They should call their banks' customer support centre any time they receive a suspicious request from someone claiming themselves as bank staff,"" he added."	
The Ministry of Information and Communications (MIC) has issued a plan to enhance the capacity of relevant agencies in supervision, inspection, handling of administrative violations and the prevention and combat of law violations and cyber crimes in the internet environment in Vietnam. This is part of efforts to effectively implement a directive issued by the Politburo on strengthening the Party's leadership of crime prevention and control in the new situation, and the national strategy on crime prevention and control for the 2016 - 2025 period, with a vision to 2030. The plan also aims to raise awareness and responsibility of agencies, organisations and individuals participating in activities on the internet and social networks, for preventing and combating law violations and cybercrimes. Vietnam intensifies fight against law violations, crimes in internet environment hinh anh 2 Illustrative image (Photo: Shutterstock) Accordingly, the MIC’s Authority of Information Security (AIS) will be in charge of coordinating activities to respond to cyber security incidents nationwide and ensure information security. The agency is also tasked with coordinating the fight against spams. Meanwhile, the Vietnam Internet Network Information Centre (VNNIC) is assigned to strengthen the management of domain names. Last year, Vietnam jumped to the 25th places among 194 countries and territories worldwide, seventh in Asia-Pacific region, and fourth among ASEAN countries, in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).	
Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky recently described Vietnam as the safest country in Southeast Asia against the threat of financial attacks targeting banks, payment systems and online stores. In an interview with Sputnik news agency, Yeo Siang Tiong, Kaspersky’s general manager for Southeast Asia, said that the company's statistics showed the rate of scams related to banks, payment systems and online stores in Vietnam was lower than other countries in the region. The fraud rate was 26.36% in Vietnam while it was 40.87% in Indonesia, 46.77% in Malaysia, 64,03% in the Philippines, 51.6% in Singapore and 56.35% in Thailand. Regarding Vietnam's efforts in ensuring security against attacks on the financial sector, Yeo said the increase in online transactions in the country during the COVID-19 pandemic was parallel with the rise of frauds through the use of fake pages of popular payment systems such as Visa, Mastercard and PayPal. It can be seen that the online transactions and shopping of users are increasingly improved, and this can be attributed to the ongoing efforts of the Government of Vietnam to raise awareness on financial and data security in the context of mobile banking and e-wallets flourishing in the region. According to the Fintech and Digital Banking 2025 - Asia Pacific report by Backbase, mobile transactions are forecast to increase by 300% in Vietnam by 2025, thanks to the booming digital economy. Vietnam is definitely ready for rapid digital transformation as well as ensuring a safer financial environment for organisations and individuals due to strong infrastructure and threat intelligence sharing, Yeo said.	
The Ministry of National Defence partnered with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to hold a virtual symposium themed “Cyber Warfare and International Humanitarian Law: Implications for Regional Security in the Context of COVID-19” on November 2. The event saw the presence of representatives from member states of the ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus) which gathers 10 ASEAN nations and its eight dialogue partners – Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Russia, and the US. It offered a platform for participants to discuss and explore fundamental provisions of the International Humanitarian Law relating to cyber warfares, and aimed to enhance capacity building for the participating countries, contributing to the maintenance of the regional cyber security. In his remarks, Major General Tong Viet Trung, Deputy Commander of Cyberspace Operation Command (Command 86), said as the Chair of the ADMM and ADMM-Plus this year, the Vietnamese Ministry of National Defence has made every effort to effectively maintain the defence cooperation process on cyber security within the ADMM-Plus via virtual meetings amid COVID-19 Together with other ASEAN member states, Vietnam has agreed that critical information technology (IT) infrastructure should be seen as national properties that form a backbone of the most important functions, services and operations in the society, Trung said. He added Vietnam has focused on strengthening cybersecurity potential for the protection of the critical IT infrastructure through intensive training and capacity building for specialised cybersecurity forces, accelerating experience sharing and international cooperation in responding to attacks to such infrastructure. Vietnam supports the application of the International Humanitarian Law to settle cyber warfares, he continued, noting  that the Vietnamese Ministry of Defence is committed to actively and responsibly participate in ASEAN’s defence cooperation mechanisms in cyber security in order to prevent cyber attacks, violations of national sovereignty on cyberspace and cyber warfares.	
The Vietnam Network for Child Online Protection (VN-COP) recently debuted its website, aiming to popularise child online protection skills and knowledge and receive child abuse reports. The website, vn-cop.vn, was launched by the Authority of Information Security under the Ministry of Information and Communications (MIC). VN-COP gathers 24 units, including representatives of the MIC, the Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Education and Training, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, along with associations, businesses, and domestic and foreign organisations specialised in child online protection. In the “Opinion Expression” section, users, including children, can raise their voice while State agencies can take their opinions into account in policymaking so as to meet aspirations of the public, especially children. Updated information about internet safety for children in Vietnam and the world, as well as new technologies developed for keeping children safe online can be found in the “News”. Meanwhile, the “Tools” section provides useful tools and software for children to engage in healthy interactions on the internet. Apart from the hotline 111 of the Child Affairs Department under the Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs, users can also send child abuse reports via this website. VN-COP will latter verify the reports and take response measures. The website launch is a step to carry out the Prime Minister’s Decision issued on June 1 last year on protecting and assisting children to have healthy and creative interactions on the internet during 2021 - 2025.	
There were over 4,100 cyber attacks targeting Vietnam’s information systems in the first 10 months of 2020, down 7.8 percent against the same period last year, the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) under the Ministry of Information and Communications’ Authority of Information Security has reported. There were 582 attacks in October - a year-on-year increase of 0.34 percent, it further said. To ensure cyber security for internet users in Vietnam, since mid-September the NCSC has partnered with 21 IT firms, including many leading corporations such as VNPT, Viettel, BKAV, and FPT, to conduct a nationwide campaign on detecting and removing malware, Director Tran Quang Hung said. As a result, by mid-October, the number of IP addresses in the network of “zombie” or hijacked computers (IP Botnet) in Vietnam sharply decreased from more than 2 million to some 1.3 million, he noted. The centre also supported the detection of malware and the supervision of cyber security in more than 100,000 computers at various ministries and governmental organisations. A report from the authority indicated that more than 70 percent of ministries, governmental organisations, and local administrations had applied four-tier security systems as of the beginning of October. The rate is expected to reach 100 percent by the end of this year, after the Prime Minister requested that a basis be laid for boosting digital transformation and developing e-Government. Global research by a number of reputable security firms show that although malware infections in Vietnam have decreased recently, they were still high compared to other countries. Figures show that the country had about 16 million computer addresses following the 4th generation internet protocol (IPv4) as of mid-September. About 3 million IP addresses were frequently blacklisted by many international organisations.	
Vietnam recorded more than 3,900 cyberattacks in the first seven months of 2021, according to the Authority of Information Security (AIS) under the Ministry of Information and Communications. In July alone, over 1,000 cyberattacks were reported, the agency said. According to statistics of the AIS's Vietnam National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), from July 26 to August 8, there were 106 comments about cases of fraudulence aimed at users on Vietnam’s cyberspace, including scams related to bank account confirmation, online recruitment, and money fraud. The NCSC also warned of fraudulent cases related to COVID-19, including impersonating civil servants, selling medical products of unknown origin, stealing personal data, fake calls for charity support, and marketing deceptive products and services. Phishing attacks all use old techniques but take advantage of content and information presented in new ways, especially information related to the COVID-19 pandemic, causing confusion and loss of vigilance among people. Information security experts have continuously warned and recommended internet and social network users in Vietnam to increase their vigilance and take safety measures to protect themselves and their relatives from online increasingly sophisticated scams. Vietnam jumped 25 places in two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in 2020, according to a report released recently by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). According to the report, Vietnam ranked seventh in the Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries. The country surpassed Thailand to clinch the fourth spot in ASEAN after Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.	
"In what might be one of the largest known personal data breaches in Vietnam, an unidentified person is offering school data pertaining to 30 million people for US$3,500. It was collected ""from a popular school website in Vietnam"" in July, the unidentified hacker, who goes by the name meli0das, posted in an online forum last Friday. ""The database is very useful [...] because 30M is nearly 1/3 of the Vietnamese population,"" the hacker said. meli0das, who joined the forum last month, wants the $3,500 in Monero, a cryptocurrency with privacy-enhancing technologies to increase anonymity. Each person’s record includes full name, email, phone number, birthday, grades, school, and location, the hacker added, saying the database ""has never been leaked before."" VnExpress found accurate a sample of 70 records the hacker released to prove the authenticity of the data, but could not verify the scale of the leak. A security expert has tried to contact the hacker, but said the hacker was ""pretty cautious."" ""In previous leaks, hackers were willing to provide samples. But meli0das only provided samples to trusted accounts on the forum or those who proved to have enough money."" The hacker is also offering data about ""360,000 Vietnamese students"" collected from an educational website. Ngo Minh Hieu, a security expert at the National Cybersecurity Center, said there is a high chance that the hack has happened, but is skeptical about its scale. ""If true, this will be one of the largest data breaches in Vietnam."" Last week another hacker, who goes by the name ChinaDan, offered on the same forum what is described as data on a billion Chinese citizens for $200,000."	
"“There have been a lot of online groups that share adult content on the Internet, especially since smart cameras became a trend every home uses, there are more groups specializing in this kind of content because many people like it,"" said P.N from Hanoi. This 26-year-old man did not hesitate to share a series of tips to hunt down the latest clips, which were revealed through the surveillance camera system distributed and shared by hackers in the aforementioned groups. “Most of these groups will charge entrance fees depending on the quality of the content, from 100,000 to 250,000 VND”, P.N revealed. Not only providing adult content, some groups also share accounts that grant access to hacked camera systems with a lifetime fee of about 3-4 million VND. Mr. Nguyen Tuan Anh, Chairman of Lumi Vietnam Joint Stock Company, said that recently, there have been many cases of leaked footage from users’ surveillance cameras, most of which happened because of users’ fault as they did not know how to secure their information. Usually, users hire another party to set up and configure their cameras systems, so the third party will be the one to create an account with a very simple password. Customers often start using them right away without changing the password, hence the information leaks. In addition, some cases resulted from the customer's own phone when it was brought to repair shops or transferred without deleting all information. If you want to ensure safety for your surveillance systems, it is necessary to choose products from a big brand name that has existed on the market for some time. These companies will have a surveillance system capable of ensuring information security for customers. Previously, a representative of the Information Security Department of the Ministry of Information and Communications said, just visit the Shodan website and try typing the keyword “cameras in Vietnam,” the results show that 1,452 cameras are being exposed online, from private homes to public places. As soon as they have your personal information, thieves can dig very deep into and exploit your private life and will cause unpredictable consequences. Many cameras originate from China Concerned about this issue, a representative of MobiFone said that private footage and personal information are leaked mainly through seemingly harmless items such as cameras - a device that is being used a lot in Vietnam not only by households but also the government. More than 90% of these cameras are from China and all have codes in their software to sync with the server. Therefore, the possibility of them leaking personal information to the outside is very high. Talking about the risk of information leakage, Mr. Ngo Tuan Anh, Deputy General Director of BKAV said: ""Currently, most cameras on the market come from China, so controlling information security and safety should be a matter of concern. Some cameras are even cloud-based, which means they connect to a server located in China and users in Vietnam must circle through this server before connecting to their camera"". According to Mr. Nguyen Minh Duc, CEO of Cyradar, government agencies should be more selective when using cameras, and avoid using cloud-based cameras to ensure information safety. According to Vietnam's Cybersecurity Law, it is not allowed to store user's data outside of Vietnam. Camera will have to be made in Vietnam Mr. Tran Quang Chien, CEO of CyStack emphasized that cameras are one of the most important devices in implementing surveillance-identification systems, smart cities, and smart homes services. It is essential that Vietnamese enterprises develop these devices with good quality and ensure safety, which will also reduce the risk of exposing sensitive data for users. However, the research and development process for these devices will take a long time. “In the current period, I think that Vietnamese authorities should have standards and regulations to evaluate the quality and safety of suppliers of these camera equipment, not only from China but also suppliers from other countries. Especially the equipment used in security monitoring systems, information collection of state agencies and important systems,"" said Chien. Mr. Nguyen Tuan Anh, Chairman of Lumi Vietnam, said that for Vietnamese brands, if they research and invest in product development themselves, they are definitely aiming to ensure safety and security for customers. Agreeing with this point of view, Mr. Nguyen Anh Phan, Head of Incident Monitoring and Handling Department, said BKAV Company offered a view that to ensure absolute national security for the government and key industries, using “made in Vietnam” products is very necessary in helping us to be proactive in controlling and keeping our information secured. “I highly appreciate the talent and intelligence of human resources in Vietnam, we can definitely make high-tech products just as good as other countries in the world. Currently, Vietnam has been able to produce security cameras integrated with artificial intelligence and export them to the US, the most demanding market in terms of technology. That alone has proved the capability of the Vietnamese technology industry,” said Mr. Nguyen Anh Phan. According to many experts, the trend of using cameras is becoming increasingly popular. It is an important component in e-Government systems, digital government and smart cities, helping to monitor traffic, security and order. Therefore, the production of cameras is an urgent need to ensure information safety and security for Vietnam."	
"The Ministry of Public Security completed a draft decree on sanctioning administrative violations in the field of cybersecurity to collect comments from agencies, organisations and individuals. Notably, in the draft decree, the Ministry of Public Security dedicated a section with 17 articles to stipulate penalties for violations in the protection of personal data. The Ministry of Public Security said that information and data security have received attention, but no sanctions have been applied. Personal information data is used, stolen, disclosed, exchanged, sold for profit, or solicited from customers when using services. Personal information of users of applications and services in cyberspace is being collected, exploited and used publicly by enterprises providing digital content, e-commerce, and foreign data storage applications. ""These are behaviours that need to be sanctioned to increase the effectiveness of the law, increase deterrence, and prevent crime,"" the Ministry of Public Security emphasised. The fine will be double the above regulation for acts of disclosing or losing personal data after it has been transferred across the border, causing consequences to 100,000 data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens; and three times more with the act of disclosing and losing personal data after crossing the border, causing consequences for 1 million data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens. Acts of disclosing or losing personal data after it has been transferred across the border, causing consequences on more than 1 million data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens, will be subject to a fine equal to 5 per cent of total revenue in Vietnam. In addition, the draft decree being consulted by the Ministry of Public Security also stipulates the form and penalties for violations of regulations on information security, cyber attack prevention, implementation of network security protection activities, and the prevention and control of acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on social order and safety. The full text of the draft decree on sanctioning of administrative violations in the field of cybersecurity has now been posted on the Government's portal at chinhphu.vn and the Ministry of Public Security's portal at mps.gov.vn for comments for two months starting from September 20."	
The Viettel Cyber Security Company (VSC), a subsidiary of the Viettel Military Industry and Telecoms Group (Viettel), has become a member of the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG). The membership is a new step for the company in connecting and sharing network security knowledge and early warnings, to help prevent the threat of cyber-attacks on a global scale. As a member, the VSC now has access to international-level information and cyber security risks to promptly develop suitable action plans. The VSC’s Make-in-Vietnam Threat Intelligence technology, meanwhile, has become the first Vietnamese product selected to be part of the APWG’s network. Launched in October, the platform is a modern network security solution focusing on gathering and analysing information on current cyber-attacks and potential threats to organisations’ and businesses’ assets, reputation, and safety. Equipped with data from internal studies conducted by leading Viettel experts, it is being applied in the services of Viettel and a number of banks in Vietnam. Established in 2003, the APWG is an industry association focused on unifying the global response to cyber crimes. There are more than 2,000 enterprises worldwide participating in the group.	
Vietnam recorded 2,915 cyber attacks in the first six months of 2021, an increase of 898 compared with the same period last year. According to the Vietnam National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), 718 cyber attacks were reported in June alone. Experts attributed the rise in the incidents to the COVID-19 pandemic which has become more complicated. Criminals take advantage of the society’s attention to the pandemic to increase cyber attacks, spread malicious codes and scams to destroy and steal information of users as well as organisations and businesses, they said. Earlier on May 26, Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung issued Directive No 22/CT-BTTT on strengthening the prevention and combat of violations and crimes on the Internet The Minister also requested the sector to continue to effectively implement the Prime Minister’s Directive No 14/CT-TTg issued on June 7, 2019 on enhancing safety measures on cybersecurity which aims to improve Vietnam's rankings. Vietnam jumped 25 places in two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in 2020, according to a report released recently by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). According to the report, Vietnam ranked seventh in the Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries. The country posted a score of 94.59 with improved scores in all five reviewed pillars. The country’s efforts to build long-term development projects in personnel for cybersecurity were recognised, along with achievements in the creating of an ecosystem for safe ‘Made in Vietnam’ products and cybersecurity. Vietnam surpassed Thailand to clinch the fourth spot in ASEAN after Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. The leading countries in the Asia-Pacific region are the Republic of Korea and Japan both with 98.52 points.	
The Viettel Cyber Security Company, a subsidiary of the military-run industry and telecom group Viettel, made debut in Hanoi on April 12. This company, set up on the basis of the Viettel cyber security centre, is tasked with researching and developing information security solutions, products and services. It is currently in charge of ensuring information security for the telecom network of Viettel in 11 markets around the world. It also provides cyber security solutions, detect loopholes, and deal with information security incidents at ministries, localities and businesses. Fifty-four enterprises were granted business licences to trade and provide network security services in the first quarter of 2019. According to the Authority of Information Security under the Ministry of Information and Communications, Vietnam recorded 620 cyber attacks in the three months, down some 50 percent year on year. Meanwhile, an assessment conducted by Bkav Corporation last December revealed that the damage caused by computer viruses to Vietnamese users reached a record of 14.9 trillion VND (over 642 million USD) in 2018, 21 percent higher than the previous year’s figure	
Vietnam has gone a long way towards establishing its own e-government and digital government. In that journey, it has faced numerous risks regarding information safety and has discovered the critical role of national cyber security to the overall success of this process. Vietnam determinedly ensures national cyber security ảnh 1 SOC (Security Operation Center) by VNPT is monitoring the cyber security status. (Photo: SGGP) Statistics from major domestic cyber security enterprises reveal that digitalizing data of private and state organizations has made these pieces of valuable information a tempting target for cyber criminals, who are increasingly sophisticating. No matter how large or small a business or organization is, it is the potential victim of thousands of viruses and malware programs in the world. In 2020, there were nearly 1 million cyber attacks in Vietnam, focusing mostly on major IT systems. Covid-19 pandemic has led to a more active use of the virtual space for working and daily operations, which means a higher potential of information leak and stealing due to an abnormal rise of cyber attacks via malware, especially Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) ones. Head of the Authority of Information Security Nguyen Thanh Phuc stated that since digital transformation is a must of all private and state organizations, strict cyber security becomes a strong indispensable fortress to protect all achievements so far of the community, hence its critical role in any development strategy. One of the most active agencies in the Vietnam Malware and Cyber-Attack Prevention Alliance is VNPT, which is often the leader in developing cyber security ecosystems for itself as well as other organizations nationwide. Its Security Operation Center (SOC) specializes in dealing with cyber security problems 24/7. Using one platform for all aspects of cyber safety, the center can integrate various functions simultaneously to timely detect cyber attacks and stop them from spreading further, which effectively minimizing damages to IT systems and their owners. SOCs have saved millions of dollars from information safety activities for businesses as well as individuals. At the moment, VNPT is cooperating with IBM to develop VNPT MSS (VNPT Managed Security Service) – a platform to monitor and manage the cyber security status of an organization, while providing necessary support to rescue IT systems from any attack, The service is expected to become the immune system for Vietnam on its way to transform into a digital country with a strong and safe digital government.	
On average, Vietnam suffered around 800,000 malicious code infections per day in January 2019, according to the global cyber threat real-time map of Kaspersky, a multinational cyber-security and anti-virus software developer headquartered in Russia. On January 21, the daily number of infections reached nearly 900,000. In Vietnam, 21.5 percent of Internet users face threats of cyber attack, the company estimates. Vietnam is also becoming one source of great cyber security threat in the world. In the fourth quarter of 2018, there were 992,952 online attacks that originated in Vietnam. As part of efforts to make Vietnam a safe cyberspace nation, Kaspersky has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Vietnam National Cyber Security Center (NCSC). It will allow the NCSC and other relevant agencies to review source codes, update and examine the components of Kaspersky Lab products via the Transparency Center in Zurich, Switzerland. Kaspersky will also share its information and data through the Vietnam National Network Security Center, and provide support in criminal investigations under the guidance and supervision of NCSC and related agencies. Vietnam’s cybersecurity law, which takes effect in 2019, bans internet users from organizing, encouraging or training other people for anti-state purposes. The law bars people from distorting history, negating the nation’s revolutionary achievements, undermining national solidarity, offending religions and discriminating on the basis of gender and race. It also prohibits the spreading of incorrect information that sows confusion among people, hurts socio-economic activity, creates difficulties for authorities and those performing their duty, and violates the legal rights and benefits of other organizations and individuals.	
With increasing technological developments, Việt Nam is facing more cybersecurity risks that are threatening national security, Nguyễn Minh Chính, director-general of the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security, talks to Việt Nam News reporter Kiều Vân about the challenges this poses. Nguyễn Minh Chính, Director General of the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security. — VNS Photo Kiều Vân With increasing technological developments, Việt Nam is facing more cybersecurity risks that are threatening national security, Nguyễn Minh Chính, director-general of the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department under the Ministry of Public Security, talks to Việt Nam News reporter Kiều Vân about the challenges this poses. Could you please tell us about the cybersecurity challenges facing Việt Nam? Việt Nam has one of the highest growth rates of internet users in the world. Over two decades since connecting to the global internet, the strong development of information technology, telecommunications and the internet is creating a new opportunity for Việt Nam to quickly catch up and take advantage of advanced scientific and technological achievements. It also helps accelerate the process of industrialisation and modernisation of the country, and deeper integration into the world economy. According to the department's data, as of January 2019, Việt Nam had 64 million internet users, accounting for more than 66 per cent of the country's population, ranking 13th in the world. Like many countries, Việt Nam has been facing threats and challenges from cyberspace, directly threatening national security and social order and safety. The spread of fake news, bad news, and false information has occurred over cyberspace, affecting sovereignty, national security, social order and safety, infringing upon the rights and legitimate interests of organisations and individuals. There have been many cyber-attacks of large scale and high intensity, with increasingly dangerous nature and levels. Many Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) have been launched targeting important information systems of State agencies. 4,000 websites with Vietnamese domain names were attacked and hundreds of thousands of computers were infected with malware in 2019. Leaks of State secrets, personal data and private lives are becoming more serious and alarming. Cyber crimes and high-tech crimes in Việt Nam are increasing in size, with more sophisticated tricks and more dangerous and serious consequences. Cyber crimes include hacking social networking accounts, using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services to impersonate law enforcement staff to steal assets and credit card information, and gambling with up to trillions of đồng. How do you value cooperation between the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department with Microsoft? With the anonymity and cross-border crime in cyberspace, Việt Nam has identified threats that have become global problems, requiring the efforts and coordination of nations, and strengthening cooperation between law enforcement agencies and tech corporations. Over the years, the cooperation between units under the Ministry of Public Security, including the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department and Microsoft Corporation, has made good progress. The two sides have launched joint programmes and exchanged information to ensure network security and fight against crime, which have achieved good results. In 2015, the Ministry of Public Security signed a Government Security Program (GSP) agreement with Microsoft Corporation. Since then, Microsoft has regularly shared information about network security with its Vietnamese partner to support national security and combat cyber crime and high-tech crimes in Việt Nam. Due to a change in the organisational structure at the Ministry of Public Security, on December 19, in Hà Nội, the Cyber Security and High-tech Crime Prevention Department re-signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the GSP agreement with Microsoft. As a member of the GSP, Việt Nam has access to cyber threats and vulnerability information and a communication channel with Microsoft's security and response teams; source codes for Microsoft products, such as the popular Windows operating system and Office suites; technical data about Microsoft’s products and cloud services; and access to Microsoft's engineers to address specific topics. What are the Ministry of Public Security’s plans for the future? Currently, the Vietnamese Government is aggressively directing the implementation of e-government towards a digital government and digital economy, which has achieved positive results. In the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) and information technology increasingly being applied by ministries, departments, State agencies and localities, this creates a momentum for the strong development of the economy and society. GSP cooperation between Microsoft and the department include dissemination to the community, implementing application and enhancing State management of network security. This helps raise awareness and promotes the application of new technology, replacing old software and removing non-copyrighted software. In addition, through this cooperation, we will also strengthen the fight against all kinds of crimes including software piracy in Việt Nam.	
"The number of cyberthreats aimed at Vietnam last year was down 14.2 percent to 64.35 million, according to global cybersecurity firm Kaspersky. In a report, it said 39.1 percent of Vietnamese online users were attacked last year as the country fell two places in the list of most attacked to 19th place. Malaysia had the highest number of web threats in Southeast Asia, 48.75 million. Kaspersky also detected 268.51 million local threats in Vietnam, or infections where users are attacked by malware spread through offline methods such as removable USB drives, CDs and DVDs, last year, down 27.8 percent. Some 64.6 percent of Vietnamese users are affected by offline threats, the eighth highest in the world. In 2019 the country had ranked sixth. Singapore had the lowest number of offline incidents in the neighborhood: 4.41 million. Yeo Siang Tiong, general director of Kaspersky Southeast Asia, said Vietnam improved its cybersecurity last year despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic thanks to a coordinated campaign by the government and private partners. ""Review and remove malware nationwide in 2020"" was carried out by the National Cybersecurity Center along with a number of local and foreign organizations. Thanks to it, the number of botnet IPs nearly halved and more than 1.2 million computers were scanned, including more than 400,000 with malware. NCSC recorded 5,168 cyberattacks that caused incidents to information systems, down 0.15 percent from 2019. Viruses cost Vietnam over $1 billion last year, cybersecurity firm Bkav said in a report in January."	
The Freedom House has recently issued a report which again contains prejudiced and partial assessments on internet freedom in Vietnam. Such assessments have no valid grounds and intentionally ignore the vivid reality of internet freedom in Vietnam, as well as achievements the country has recorded in human rights over the past years. Vietnam’s efforts in ensuring and promoting human rights have been lauded by other countries and international organisations at various cycles of the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). The council has also regarded Vietnam as a bright spot in human development, as reflected through the implementation of millennium development goals (MDGs) on poverty reduction, and social equality and progress. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the country has been praised for giving the top priority to public health. According to the Human Development Report 2020 released by the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Vietnam has joined the ranks of countries with high human development in the world. Between 1990 and 2019, the country’s Human Development Index (HDI) increased by almost 46 percent, which was among the highest HDI growth rates in the world, the report said. Notably, Vietnam is one of the countries that have completed the MDGs ahead of schedule, and are working towards sustainable development goals (SDGs). The country has made impressive progress in internet development. Statistics show about 70 percent of Vietnamese people use the internet, against the world’s average ratio of only 51.4 percent. Vietnam is among the 20 countries with the highest number of internet users. Various social platforms have registered to operate in the country, with the most popular being Facebook, Zalo, Twitter, Instagram and Tiktok, to name just a few. Notably, Facebook has attracted up to over 65 million users in the country. People can freely express their views and share information via the internet, especially websites and social networks. Many agencies and organisations in the political system, from the central to grassroots levels, have also utilised the internet and social networks to serve their operations, handle administrative procedures and maintain contact with residents. They are the vivid evidences of the fact that the Vietnamese Party and State have always respected and protected the development right of each individual, as well as their rights to freedom of information and internet. Therefore, the Freedom House’s allegation that Vietnam’s Law on Cyber Security is a tool to monitor internet use in the country is groundless. The cyber security law is designed to make Vietnam’s cyber space healthy and protect the country’s sovereign right in the cyber space, in the context of surging trade frauds, fake news, distorted information or contents that are immoral or trigger social disturbances. The freedom of internet and social networks in Vietnam has been exercised within the legal framework to ensure cyber security and prevent activities that take advantage of social networks to violate Vietnam’s laws, incite social unrest and create conditions for external forces to intervene into domestic matters. Moreover, the law totally conforms to international law, specifically the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 19 of the ICCPR stipulates that “Everyone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference,” but the exercise of such rights provided for in paragraph 2 of this article carries with it special duties and responsibilities. “It may therefore be subject to certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary: (a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others; (b) For the protection of national security or of public order (ordre public), or of public health or morals.” It is obvious that the Free House has deliberately ignored the ICCPR regulations, and the fact that not only Vietnam but also more than 180 other countries have issued a cyber security law or relevant rules to ensure national security. Many countries like the US, Germany, France, the Republic of Korea and Singapore have adopted laws and clauses stipulating the strict handling of law violations in the cyber space. The Freedom House has repeatedly made biased and prejudiced assessments on Vietnam’s internet freedom since the country issued the Law on Cyber Security. It mainly collects such information from reactionary organisations and groups that involve in activities to sabotage Vietnam. The fabricated information aims to create false understanding on internet freedom and human rights in Vietnam, to defame the country and lower its prestige, position and role in the international arena. Professor Vladimir Kolotov, head of the Ho Chi Minh Institute at St. Petersburg University in Russia, said the reports issued each year by Freedom House neither base on realities nor reflect the real situation of human rights in countries. It gives itself the right to accuse other countries of violating human rights and interfere into other countries’ internal affairs, he said. It is clear that the Freedom House has no rights to intervene into internal affairs of countries. It must immediately put an end to such valueless reports.	
Vietnam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in 2020, according to a report released by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) on June 30. According to the report, Vietnam ranked seventh in Asia-Pacific region and fourth among ASEAN countries in the field. The country posted a score of 94.59 with improvement of scores in all five reviewed pillars. The country’s efforts in building long-term development projects in personnel for cybersecurity were recognised, along with the achievements in the creating of an ecosystem for safe “Made in Vietnam” products and cybersecurity. Under the ranking, Vietnam surpassed Thailand to clinch the fourth position in the ASEAN after Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. Leading countries in the Asia-Pacific regions are the Republic of Korea and Japan both with 98.52 points. The Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) is an initiative of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the UN specialized agency for ICTs. It was first launched in 2015 by the ITU to measure the commitment of 193 ITU Member States and the State of Palestine to cybersecurity to help them identify areas of improvement and encourage countries to take action, through raising awareness on the state of cybersecurity worldwide. This report aims to better understand countries’ commitments to cybersecurity, identify gaps, encourage the incorporation of good practices, and provide useful insights for countries to improve their cybersecurity postures.	
As many as 5,168 cyber-attacks were recorded on information systems in Vietnam in 2020, a year-on-year decline of 0.15 percent, according to the Ministry of Information and Communications’ National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). In December alone, the country was hit by 315 cyber-attacks, falling by 54.48 percent compared to the previous month, and 0.94 percent year-on-year. The campaign to review and remove malware nationwide in 2020 has achieved positive results. The number of IP addresses of computers in virus-infected computer networks (IP Botnet) has decreased sharply. The number of Botnet IPs has nearly halved to over 1 million from more than 2 million in the period from June 16 to July 15, 2020. Over 5,100 cyber-attacks hit Vietnam in 2020 hinh anh 2 The chart of IP Botnet status before and during the malware scanning campaign. (Screenshots) Statistics from the NCSC also show that the campaign, which was hosted by the Ministry of Information and Communications and implemented by NCSC in coordination with corporations including VNPT, Viettel, BKAV, FPT and CMC, has been actively supported by the community. Over 1.2 million computers were scanned, detecting more than 400,000 of those infected with malware. Through over 8 million visits to the campaign via websites and social networks, many individuals and organizations have participated in inspecting, processing, and removing malware for thousands of computers of individuals and businesses for free. Out of over 1.2 million computers reviewed, about 400,000 were found infected with malware. In addition, the number of individuals and agencies giving feedback on the campaign reached more than 23,000. Previously, from October 1, 2020, on the campaign's website at https://khonggianmang.vn/chiendich2020, NCSC launched a real-time map of the results of the malware review by region in Vietnam, and a chart featuring the implementation of the campaign in the northern, central and southern regions. These help assess the performance of the campaign.	
"A recent online data leak revealing 17 GB worth of Vietnamese identity card information has allegedly been connected to digital currency platform Pi Network. The leak was posted on Raidforums, a forum where data leaks by hackers are often displayed and put up for sale, by an account named Ox1337xO on Thursday. The account allegedly revealed the possession of a large amount of Know Your Customer (KYC) data: 17 GB worth of Vietnamese identity card information, including faces, addresses, phone numbers and emails. A 1.4 GB file is estimated to contain the information of 3,600 people. The account put the files on sale for $9,000, to be paid either through Bitcoin or Litecoin. A cybersecurity expert said they had contacted the account, who claimed the 17 GB worth of data contained the information of up to 10,000 Vietnamese. The info contained within an identity card could be used to sign up for several accounts, including those in the communications and financial fields, which could prove ""troublesome,"" said Pham Tien Manh, a cybersecurity expert based in Hanoi. Vo Do Thang, director of cybersecurity firm Athena, said there was nothing ordinary users could do to protect their data. The responsibility now lies on whoever let the data be leaked in the first place, he added. In the comment section of Raidforums, the Ox1337xO account admitted to accessing the data via Pi Network, a digital currency platform that hosts the ""Pi"" currency. The platform has raised concerns regarding its transparency since it does not publicize its own source code. ""If it were truly Pi that leaked the data, I will consider leaving behind the 'Pi' coins I've earned,"" said Ngoc Nam, a new user to the ""Pi"" mining scene. However, other miners believe the leaked data could not have come from Pi Network, as the platform neither directly verifies its users' info nor requests pictures of identity cards. Phien Vo, a moderator of a group discussing Pi Network, which has over 70,000 members in Vietnam, said it is not accurate to say it was Pi Network that leaked the data, as the platform processed KYC data through another third party system called Yoti, a digital identity verification site. Yoti accepts identity cards from 62 countries and territories, but the list does not include Vietnam, he added. ""To perform KYC verification on Pi Network, Vietnamese would need to use their passports. Only some users who used earlier versions of Pi could perform KYC verification using their driver licenses, but so far the system has yet to accept Vietnamese identity cards,"" he said. On Monday, the Ministry of Public Security's cybersecurity division launched an investigation regarding the incident. A representative said authorities are trying to discover where the leak came from and how the info got leaked. To An Xo, office chief of the public security ministry, said the leaked data might be funneled abroad and put up for sale online due to the fact that many services require identity verification. As of Sunday, the original data leak thread on Raidforums has been deleted. This is not the first time Vietnamese have experienced a major online data leak. Earlier this year, around 300,000 Vietnamese data profiles, including full names, addresses and phone numbers, were also leaked on Raidforums."	
Experts are looking askance at Vietnam’s proposed cyber-security law, saying it would create barriers for foreign businesses and hinder GDP growth. In the latest version of the bill, the Ministry of Public Security proposes that digital behemoths like Facebook and Google be required to store data of Vietnamese users in Vietnam, as also important data collected or generated from activities in the country. Such provisions will have negative impacts on economic development as cross-border data exchange is limited, the Vietnam Digital Communication Association (VDCA) said in a recent statement to the Defense-Security Committee of the National Assembly. The regulation will make Vietnam less attractive to foreign businesses, said Nguyen Quang Dong, director of the Institute for Policy Studies and Media Development, under the VDCA. It will be very difficult to make digital giants such as Microsoft and Amazon store their customers' data in Vietnam, Dong told VnExpress International. He said the high security standards that such companies follow will be inimical to typical Vietnamese practices. Furthermore, “even though the direct costs of enforcing this regulation will be charged to foreign businesses, Vietnamese users will eventually have to pay for storing their data inside the country,” he added. The localization of users’ data will affect usage of a shared database, which is currently popular among businesses, Tran Thi Kim Phuong, Vietnam Information Security Association’s chief of staff, told the Thanh Nien (Young People) newspaper. For instance, said Phuong, if a hotel has a customer database for 100 facilities in different countries, when a Vietnamese goes to one such facility outside Vietnam, he will have to submit his information all over again. The regulation will also create several other difficulties for businesses, she said. Apart from making Vietnam less attractive to investors, the proposed law will also have deleterious impacts on the economy. Vietnam’s GDP will decrease by 1.7 percent, foreign investment will plunge 3.1 percent and $1.5 billion in consumer welfare will be lost should the bill take effect, according to a study by the Asia Cloud Computing Association, an organization which aims to ensure that the interests of the cloud computing community are effectively represented in public policy debates. As there are more businesses in Vietnam operating and participating in cross-border trade, unnecessary constraints upon cross-border data flows could jeopardize both future opportunities and much of the investment being considered and deployed, according to study published in March by the Brookings Institution, which claims to be dedicated to independent research and policy solutions. Many experts are also concerned about the effectiveness of the bill. “Even if a business stores their data in Vietnam, we might not be able to access that information as it is encrypted,” Bui Quang Minh, a director of MVS Information Security Jsc, told Thanh Nien. The draft law on cyber-security will be discussed on Tuesday at the ongoing National Assembly session. Vietnam currently has 64 million people with online access, of which 55 million, or 57 percent of the population, use social media, according to a report published in January by We are Social, a social media marketing and advertising agency.	
"According to Major General Pham Viet Trung, Vietnam needs to join bilateral and multilateral international organizations in the field of cybersecurity to contribute to solving incidents and preventing harmful activities in cyberspace. effectively. Focus on researching new infectious diseases, non-traditional security challenges Mekong River development and ""non-traditional security"" cooperation Vietnam needs to strengthen cooperation and join international organizations in the field of cybersecurity - Photo 1. Overview of the forum - Photo: DANH TRI On October 17, with the consent of the Prime Minister, Hanoi National University organized the ASEAN Non-Traditional Security Administration Cooperation Forum (ACF-MNS). Speaking at the forum, Prof. Dr. Le Quan, director of Hanoi National University, said that currently in the ASEAN region, risks, challenges and threats related to traditional security and security Non-traditional activities are increasingly present and increasing, the urgent requirement for the region is to join hands, firmly consolidate trust, and closely coordinate among countries in ensuring security for the entire region. . Presenting the presentation, Lieutenant General Phan Xuan Tuy, director of the Academy of Politics of the People's Public Security, said that the People's Public Security Force and the People's Army are one of the core forces ready to respond to security. non-traditional. ""In order to do this, the people's police force needs to create people who must first have the courage, when faced with threats, and not be afraid of survival. That is the strength of the police force. armed forces,"" Tuy said. Vietnam needs to strengthen cooperation and join international organizations in the field of cybersecurity - Photo 2. Lieutenant General Phan Xuan Tuy, director of the People's Public Security Academy - Photo: DANH TRONG Presenting solutions to improve the effectiveness of international cooperation in the field of information security and cyber security, Major General Pham Viet Trung, Cyber ​​Command Command, Ministry of National Defense, emphasized the current issues of information security and cyber security. Issues related to cybersecurity, war in cyberspace... have been posing many risks and challenges to the security of each country. Threats and challenges from cyberspace become a global issue, having a profound impact on the security and peace situation of the world and the ASEAN region. To solve this problem, a single country will not have the capacity to deal with it, but requires countries to join hands and contribute to effectively solve it. Since then, Mr. Trung said that it is necessary to strengthen cooperation in monitoring and promoting cybersecurity at the regional level in order to improve the effectiveness of international cooperation in the field of information security and cyber security. According to Mr. Trung, it is very necessary to discuss, share and improve understanding of the law and cyber security of ASEAN countries. Therefore, a stakeholder engagement process is needed to ensure effectiveness. Vietnam also needs to strengthen cooperation and participate in bilateral and multilateral international organizations in the field of cyber security to contribute to solving incidents and preventing harmful activities in cyberspace. effective… Actively participate in cyber security exercises in the space of ASEAN countries and other countries in the world in order to enhance and improve the understanding of cyber security forces. On the issue of non-traditional security in nature, Prof. Dr. Truong Quang Hoc, Institute of Natural Resources and Environment, Vietnam National University, Hanoi, said that nowadays people with a false sense of influence have increasingly strong impacts. strongly affect nature and make it degraded. Another problem is that environmental pollution is also caused by humans, especially the problem of residual waste. Vietnam is ranked 4th in terms of countries responsible for the discharge of plastic waste, polluting the environment in general and the marine environment in particular. This causes a lot of harm to humans and animals in terms of physics, science and especially disease"	
"Ensuring safety and network security to help businesses transform successfully and sustainably requires investment and a long-term strategy. Information given in the High-Level Roundtable of Information Technology and Information Security Leaders, co-hosted by the Information Security Department, the Ministry of Information and Communications, Viettel Cyber ​​Security Company and IEC Group. office in September. In the opening speech, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc, Director of the Information Security Department - now Director of the Institute of Information and Communication Strategy, said that digital transformation in Vietnam is taking place strongly and is a revolution for the whole people. . Each person is online for nearly 7 hours a day and this time is continuing to increase sharply, the risk of information insecurity in cyberspace is increasingly clear. The main trend of attacks targeting users' devices, enterprise systems, cloud computing platforms... leads to many risks such as data leakage, malicious code distribution, DDoS... ""The risk of information insecurity is very clear, but most organizations and businesses have not fully implemented plans to reduce risks. A serious incident can halt the digital transformation program of the company. an entire industry, locality, and enterprise,"" said Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc. According to statistical data of the Information Security Administration, in the first half of this year in Vietnam, there were about 44.7 incidents of cyberattacks on information systems every day, this number has increased 1.6 times compared to the previous year. same period in 2021. Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc spoke at the conference. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc spoke at the conference. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Mr. Robert Trong Tran, Technology Risk Leader of E&Y Vietnam, said that businesses in the digital transformation era are applying and massively deploying new technologies and devices such as robotics, IoT systems, AI, etc. Cloud computing... Therefore, the attack surface expands at a rapid rate, increasing security holes thereby creating opportunities for attackers to exploit. ""60% of small businesses close within six months of being hacked,"" said Robert, citing a 2021 UK government census. According to him, the consequences of a security incident will cause organizations to suffer reputational and financial damage and face legal problems. Even making the company turn away from investors, because cyber attacks are always the top risk in the list of business threats. Mr. Robert Trong Tran talked about the state of information security. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Mr. Robert Trong Tran talked about the state of information security. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Mr. Robert said that this situation stems from the fact that information security has not been taken seriously. Many businesses see this as a ""spending money"" segment, even the requirements from the information security department hinder their development. ""This makes the relationship between information security and other departments in the company increasingly strained, making them distrustful and cutting budgets,"" he said. In addition, the pressure of time, thinking in software development makes many organizations want to create products in the fastest way. They tend to overlook security elements in design and operation. In summary, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc suggested that organizations and businesses need to deploy to ensure the safety of their systems under the direction of the Prime Minister. Leaders of the units will be responsible if there is an incident. At the same time, the representative of E&Y Vietnam also emphasized that businesses need to make security and privacy an indispensable culture in the organization. Information security will then integrate naturally into all business decisions. Organizations also need to periodically assess security risks, automate information security processes, and implement Zero Trust architecture in their operations. Overview of the conference. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Overview of the conference. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security To meet the needs of enterprises to ensure cyber security in the current context, Mr. Nguyen Son Hai, Director of Viettel Cyber ​​Security Company (Viettel Cyber ​​Security - VCS) has introduced new approaches in the field of cyber security. the investment and development of an information security strategy, focusing on the following factors: bringing information security resources together with the digital transformation force; develop a synchronous integration-oriented ecosystem on a single governance platform; synchronize investment models of digital transformation projects with information security; strengthen defense capabilities with technology. As a service provider, the VCS representative also made recommendations on building a balanced, solid and secure digital transformation model between three parties: investor - digital transformation partner - partner safety information. Mr. Nguyen Son Hai talked about a new approach to reduce the gap between information security and digital transformation. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security Mr. Nguyen Son Hai talked about a new approach to reduce the gap between information security and digital transformation. Photo: Viettel Cyber ​​Security ""Information security always has a gap with digital transformation. BecauseTherefore, the organization needs a agile force to actively hunt for threats and reduce this gap,"" Hai emphasized. The conference was attended by more than 60 representatives from ministries, sectors, corporations, businesses in the fields of finance - banking, securities, energy, transportation... The conference discussed and proposed deals with issues of cybersecurity trends and strategies, providing optimal solutions in investment in cybersecurity for Vietnamese businesses."	
"Emphasizing the importance of ensuring network safety and security, Deputy Head of the Central Economic Commission Nguyen Duc Hien said that cybersecurity is a pillar and an important content to create digital trust. promote digital transformation. The above comment was made by Mr. Nguyen Duc Hien, Deputy Head of the Central Economic Commission in his speech at the High-level roundtable conference on IT Leadership and Information Security in 2022, which was received by the Information Security Department - Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Information and Communications, and the Ministry of Information and Communications. Viettel Cyber ​​Security Company (Viettel Cyber ​​Security) and IEC Group jointly held the event on the afternoon of September 21 in Ho Chi Minh City. With the theme ""Optimizing resources - Enhancing the efficiency of information security investment in the digital era"", event organizers aim to strengthen organizational capacity to respond and detect threats early. engine and protection of information systems in critical areas. “Cybersecurity and safety are important pillars to promote digital transformation” Mr. Nguyen Duc Hien, Deputy Head of the Central Economic Commission (Photo: Quynh Bui) According to Deputy Head of the Central Economic Commission Nguyen Duc Hien, in the development trend, there are three important transition processes, namely digital transformation, green transformation and labor transformation, from unskilled or unskilled. low to have skills, higher level. In the process of digital transformation, a very important issue is ensuring network safety and security. “When implementing digital transformation, network safety and security is a pillar, a very important content to create digital trust and promote the digital transformation process. Without ensuring network safety and security, the digital transformation process cannot achieve the desired success, ""said Mr. Nguyen Duc Hien. Sharing at the conference, Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc, Director of the Institute of Information and Communications Strategy (Ministry of Information and Communications), said that digital transformation, building a digital government, developing the digital economy and digital society are taking place strongly. On average, a Vietnamese person spends nearly 7 hours online every day on the Internet. “This length of time will continue to increase, creating a huge challenge for those responsible for network safety and security. Just one serious safety and network security incident can stop the digital transformation program of an entire industry, a locality or an enterprise,"" said Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc. Nguyen Thanh Phuc also informed that there are about 900 cyber attacks every day in the world and 40 weaknesses, vulnerabilities, information security, supply chain attacks, malicious code, extortion and threats. hackers entering the system of enterprises will increase. “Cybersecurity and safety are important pillars to promote digital transformation” According to Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc, the risk of information insecurity is very clear, but most organizations and businesses have not fully implemented the plan to ensure information security (Artwork). The trend of moving data and applications to using cloud computing platforms is clear. Cloud computing is creating new threats to network safety and security. A recently published study found that nearly 80% of the companies that participated in the survey had problems leaking cyberattack data in the cloud; out of which 43% of businesses reported having more than 10 times their data compromised. It is predicted that the number of DDoS attacks will double, from 7.9 million detected in 2018 to more than 15 million in 2023. On average, organizations and businesses stop accessing the Internet every hour. Damages can range from $300,000 to $1 million. Therefore, even a short DDoS attack can cause serious damage. “The risk of information insecurity is very clear, but most organizations and businesses have not fully implemented the plan to ensure information security to reduce risks. Therefore, I suggest that IT and information security leaders of organizations deploy to ensure system security under their management in accordance with the spirit of the Prime Minister's direction in Directive 14, 2019. and National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy”, suggested Mr. Nguyen Thanh Phuc. “Cybersecurity and safety are important pillars to promote digital transformation” Mr. Robert Trong Tran emphasized that the point of view, cybersecurity strategy should be associated with the business strategy of enterprises and organizations. From a business perspective, Mr. Robert Trong Tran, Deputy General Director of Consulting Services, Head of Technology Risk and Cybersecurity Division of EY Vietnam said, according to the survey, 81% of global leaders COVID-19 pandemic response has forced businesses to bypass necessary security procedures, while cyberattacks are happening more often according to feedback from 77% of survey respondents . “This is also why EY has always emphasized that digital transformation must be driven by cybersecurity. Having a clear cybersecurity strategy will allow organizations to move quickly and confidently in today's dangerous and challenging environment,"" said Robert Trong Tran. Affirming the view that network security must always go hand in hand with digital transformation, a representative of Viettel Cyber ​​Security said that it is necessary to identify and prioritize information security resources together with the digital transformation force; development of the ecosystemoriented product integration synchronously on a single management platform; at the same time, synchronize the investment model of digital transformation projects with projects to ensure information security as well as strengthen defense capacity by technology. In addition, the representative of Viettel Cyber Security also gave recommendations on building a balanced, solid and safe digital transformation model between 3 parties including the investor, digital transformation partner and information security partner. believe."	
"Recently, the situation of safety and network security has become complicated and difficult to control for many countries. In our country, hostile and reactionary forces have been taking full advantage of cyberspace to oppose the revolutionary cause of the Party and people. Therefore, raising awareness of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace is very important and urgent... Benefits and challenges Cyberspace has been bringing many positive values ​​to the development of society, organizations and individuals. Along with the continuous development of internet services, 4G, 5G network technologies, social networking sites, IoT devices, cloud computing services... more multidimensional, reflecting more vividly and instantaneously with all aspects of life and social relationships. It is this that has turned cyberspace into a new social space where people can perform their social behaviors, such as communication, creativity, labor, production, consumption, etc. learning and entertainment, not limited by geography, language, space and time. The benefits of cyberspace are also known as the digital foundation in the national digital transformation program, digital government development strategies, digital economy and digital society. According to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 749/QD-TTg dated June 3, 2020 approving the ""National Digital Transformation Program to 2025, with a vision to 2030"", cyberspace is the place where activities take place. activities of agencies, organizations, enterprises and people in the digital environment; The communication between the government and the people and businesses basically takes place in cyberspace. At that time, cyberspace really becomes a space with endless digital resources, affecting all economic, political, social and especially human fields. Protecting cyberspace - an urgent requirement Illustration / Tuyen Giao.vn Along with great benefits, cyberspace is creating risks and challenges for national security, human security and social order and safety. These are the challenges of cyber intelligence, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism, the threat of a cyber war and a host of other threats. If the national cyberspace is not protected, State secrets will be exposed; important national infrastructure such as aviation information system, national electricity grid, road traffic, and important industrial facilities will be destroyed; The financial system, banking and many other sectors are stalled or dysfunctional. In the past time, hostile forces have taken advantage of the social network environment to distort the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation; enticing and inciting disgruntled elements, gathering forces, and establishing opposing organizations; spreading documents, calling for marches and demonstrations, causing instability in political security, social order and safety. In addition, cyberspace is also used to cause damage to property, spirit, health, and even human life. There are many online scams, people who post comments, comments, share, even make up false stories and clips that adversely affect the health, honor and reputation of the organization. organizations and individuals. Not only that, cyberspace is becoming and is the environment in a new form of warfare, which is cyber warfare. It is creating the risks of war without gun smoke, without front lines, without borders between countries with the participation of all actors in the network environment including: State-funded hacker groups support; professional, non-governmental hacker groups; Script Kiddies (amateur hacker) groups... According to the leader of the Ministry of Information and Communications (in his presentation at the Vietnam international conference and exhibition on cyber safety - Vietnam Security Summit 2022 taking place on June 23, 2022): Cybercriminals tend to using new, modern technologies, many complex features, making the detection and handling of the consequences of attacks more complicated and takes more time. Malware attacks combined with artificial intelligence technology or using technology to simulate user behavior, to attack critical infrastructures, supply chains, factories, etc. challenges in the process of building digital government, digital economy and digital society. Promote propaganda, clearly define responsibilities The Resolution of the 13th Party Congress determined: Ensuring network safety and security is one of the important tasks in the Strategy to protect the Fatherland in the new situation, the Strategy on national security protection; especially in the context that our country is accelerating the process of digital transformation, building e-government, towards digital government, digital economy, digital society and digital citizens in the development orientation of the country in the next period. period 2021-2030. Over the past time, our Party and State have always paid close attention to and directed closely to the protection of network safety and security, and have issued many resolutions, directives and legal documents, such as: Decision No. 29-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 cof the Politburo on the Strategy to defend the Fatherland in cyberspace, Resolution No. 30-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on the National Cybersecurity Strategy, the Law on Cyberinformation Security of the year. 2015, Law on Cybersecurity 2018, Resolution No. 22/NQ-CP dated October 18, 2019 of the Government on the Government's action plan to implement Resolution 30 of the Politburo... Building and protecting the cyber environment is the responsibility of every cadre, party member and people of all walks of life in order to create a healthy, safe and sustainable virtual society on the internet, showing bold identity. native culture. In order to improve understanding of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace, all levels and sectors need to do well in educating and raising awareness about the responsibility of building and protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace. . In which, focusing on propagating, disseminating and educating the Penal Code (2015) related to the field of information technology and telecommunications networks; Law on Cyberinformation Security (2015); Law on Cybersecurity (2018)... Preventing, preventing, responding to and overcoming consequences of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism and preventing and combating the risk of cyberwar. Condemn acts of using cyberspace for propaganda against the State; organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; false information; prostitution, social evils; vandalizing fine customs and traditions; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Struggling with the manifestations and actions of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; taking advantage of or abusing network security protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. ... Early education institutions put the national cyber security assurance educational content into the teaching curricula suitable to the discipline and grade level. Cyberattack activities are diverse and sophisticated, officials, party members and the masses need to be alert to the tricks of hostile forces. Currently, they are plotting to attack the websites of the Government, agencies, units, schools and businesses; fake websites to cheat and steal personal data; malicious code attack; attack anonymously with malicious software;... Hostile forces will take advantage of personal blogs to entice and incite disgruntled elements, gather forces, and establish transnational opposition organizations. Sculpting the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation... Party committees, authorities, mass organizations and officials and party members need to raise their sense of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace. Raise the political awareness, responsibility and civic duty for the task of building and protecting the national cyberspace. Comply with the provisions of the law on network security protection; promptly provide information related to network security, threats to network security and other infringing acts, and comply with requests and instructions of competent state management agencies. Each individual needs to study and make good use of technical measures to ensure information security such as protecting personal accounts with 2-factor password authentication; make a habit of scanning for viruses before opening files; perform backup with important data;... Users should be wary of strange websites, unknown emails and suspicious links; update the browser version, operating system and programs used; Use reputable and regularly updated anti-virus software, do not turn off the anti-virus program at all times. Along with that, the agencies in charge of cybersecurity provide full information on development trends and threats from cyberspace; measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks. Enterprises providing services in cyberspace have increased warnings about the possibility of network insecurity provided by their units and guided on preventive measures; develop plans to deal with network security incidents; coordinate and create conditions for specialized forces in cybersecurity protection activities"	
The Decision was issued to organize the effective implementation of the tasks assigned in Decision No. 964/QD-TTg dated August 10, 2022 of the Prime Minister approving the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy. , proactively responding to challenges from space to 2025, vision to 2030; define tasks, assign them to specific units; well perform the role of the Ministry of Information and Communications in presiding over, guiding and coordinating the implementation of the Strategy to improve national cybersecurity and safety capacity, realizing the vision of turning Vietnam into a superpower. country on network information security. At the same time, ensure timely, synchronous, scientific and effective implementation of the tasks of the Ministry of Information and Communications and related agencies, organizations and businesses assigned in the Strategy; clearly define tasks, assign specific implementation responsibilities; proactively and promptly solve difficulties and problems during the implementation process to ensure the completion of the set tasks. According to the plan, the Department of Information Security shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with units in the Ministry of Information and Communications with, to unify the awareness from central to local levels about ensuring network safety and security is the responsibility of the Ministry of Information and Communications. of the whole political system; in which, the National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety coordinates the coordination between 4 forces (Ministries: Public Security, Defense, Information and Communication and Central Propaganda Department). Promote the effective participation of the people in ensuring network safety and security and proactively respond to threats and challenges from cyberspace; coordinate in protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace according to their assigned functions and tasks; At least once a year, organize drills, instructions, inspection, response and response to safety and network security incidents... The Information Security Administration is responsible for coordinating with relevant units to review and compile dossiers of application for the inclusion of important information systems in accordance with the provisions of law on the list of important information systems. on national security; monitoring and early warning of violations of the law in cyberspace for the national cyber infrastructure; ensure network safety and security for the process of implementing e-Government and digital transformation; develop policies and laws on data protection in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, especially important national data according to their assigned functions and tasks... The Decision also assigns specific tasks to departments, agencies and units under the Ministry of Information and Communications; Vietnam Information Security Association; digital infrastructure enterprises; digital platform owners and information system owners; network information security enterprises; supporting specialized units of information technology/information security of ministries, ministerial-level agencies, and agencies attached to the Government; Departments of Information and Communications in implementing the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace The decision takes effect from September 21, 2022.	
Recently, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention - CATP Hai Phong discovered a case of online fraud. Specifically, this object uses Facebook, Zalo to set up associations and groups pretending to buy and sell goods. After that, the subject contacted the buyer and offered to sell foreign alcohol at a cheap price. At the same time, the subject placed an order with a wine sales agent in Hai Phong, arranged for buyers and sellers to meet to see the goods, then online asked the buyer to transfer 150 million VND to a bank account and then stopped contacting. lost and escaped. During the investigation, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention - CATP Hai Phong identified the fraudster as Ngo Thi Nhung, born in 1996, residing in Dong Hoa commune, Ho Chi Minh City. Di An, Binh Duong province. After committing fraud in Hai Phong city, Nhung moved to Thai Nguyen province. Nhung is the subject of professional fraud, sophisticated tricks, interprovincial activities and has performed many online frauds in provinces and cities across the country. Ngo Thi Nhung at the police office. On September 27, 2022, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention - CATP Hai Phong coordinated with Thai Nguyen Provincial Police to arrest Ngo Thi Nhung in Pho Yen city, Thai Nguyen province. Nhung confessed that after arriving in Thai Nguyen province, she continued to go to a shop selling laptops, used the citizen ID of a person with a photo similar to hers, and ordered high-value products. At the time of delivery, Nhung faked the image of the bank's money order, received the product and sold it on social networks and appropriated 16.39 million dong. Through the above incident, it is recommended that people be very wary of advertising information, buying and selling high-quality and cheap goods on social networking sites; proactively prevent fraudulent tricks with both buyers and sellers to be in the middle of appropriating property. At the same time, be wary of the trick of creating fake money orders through a bank account when making purchases and sales of goods. When detecting suspicious signs, it is necessary to promptly notify the competent authorities for settlement and handling.	
Implementing Decision No. 1261/QD-BCT dated June 27, 2022 of the Minister of Industry and Trade, this morning of October 13, in Sam Son city, Thanh Hoa province, the Office of the Ministry shall assume the prime responsibility for coordinating with other units. related, organize an intensive training conference on protection of state secrets, cyber security and records and archives in 2022 for units under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Attending the conference were Deputy Chief of Office of the Ministry of Industry and Trade Khieu Ngoc Sang; Mr. Pham Van Sinh, Internal Political Security Department of the Ministry of Public Security; Nguyen Duc Dung, Deputy Head of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention Department of the Ministry of Public Security; Dao Duc Trieu, Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention of the Ministry of Public Security and representatives of officials from units under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Training conference on protection of state secrets, cyber security and documents in 2022 Delegates attending the conference Protection of state secrets, network security and documents and archives is particularly important in the protection of national security and politics, and in the management and administration of ministries and branches in general. and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in particular. Recognizing that importance, over the past time, the protection of state secrets, network security and documents, archived at the Ministry of Industry and Trade has always been concerned by the Ministry's leaders, regularly directing units to implement strictly comply with the regulations of the State. Training conference on protection of state secrets, cyber security and documents in 2022 Deputy Chief of Office of the Ministry of Industry and Trade Khieu Ngoc Sang speaking at the opening of the training conference Units under the Ministry of Industry and Trade have promptly issued Regulations on protection of internal secrets, ensuring network security and clerical and archival work, suitable to the functions and tasks of each unit and the provisions of the law; interested in allocating funds, procuring equipment and consolidating the whole machine, and arranging staff with capacity, professional qualifications and moral qualities to perform state management in this field. Training conference on protection of state secrets, cyber security and documents in 2022 Overview of the Conference From the importance of the protection of state secrets, records, archives and cyber security of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and its units under and under the Ministry have achieved positive results, approved by the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. 1688 of June 27, 2022 on the results of the implementation of the inspection conclusion on the observance of the provisions of the law on protection of State secrets and cyber security for the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The training conference is aimed at fostering, equipping and supplementing with information and knowledge about the latest regulations of the State related to the protection of state secrets, ensuring network and secretarial security. , storage; at the same time, it is a forum for students to exchange, discuss and share experiences to solve real-life situations and problems in each agency and unit; thereby, helping to raise awareness, awareness, responsibility and specific knowledge and skills for officials, civil servants and public employees of units under and under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to meet the requirements of working tasks in the field. next time. Training conference on protection of state secrets, cyber security and documents in 2022 Mr. Pham Van Sinh, Internal Political Security Department of the Ministry of Public Security speaking at the conference The training conference will take place on October 13 and 14 with many important contents such as: Contents related to Decree No. 26/2020ND-CP dated February 28, 2020 detailing a number of articles of the Law Protection of state secrets; Implementation of the provisions of the transition clause Article 28 of the Law on Protection of State Secrets; Circular No. 24/2020/TT-BCA dated March 10, 2020 of the Ministry of Public Security; A number of lists of State secrets in related fields issued by the Prime Minister and Decision No. 1369/QD-TTg dated September 3, 2020 of the Prime Minister… The conference will listen to the speakers convey the topics, through which, the trainees will exchange, discuss and share problems arising in practice, contributing to improving knowledge, specific skills to meet work requirements in the new situation. The rapporteurs will also proactively offer problems, solutions, and ways to handle situations and solve problems for trainees, thereby further enhancing practical experience.	
Chỉ tính riêng trong năm 2021, đã có 113.384 trang web lừa đảo được báo cáo. Trong đó hơn 22.000 website đã bị đưa vào “danh sách đen” sau quá trình xác minh. Liên minh chống lừa đảo toàn cầu (GASA) mới đây đã công bố một báo cáo về tình trạng lừa đảo trực tuyến trên toàn cầu. Theo báo cáo này, số vụ lừa đảo trực tuyến đang bùng nổ mạnh thời gian gần đây. Cụ thể, số vụ lừa đảo trực tuyến trên toàn cầu trong năm 2021 là 266 triệu vụ, tăng 90%. Khoảng 50 tỷ USD của người dùng toàn cầu đã rơi vào tay những kẻ lừa đảo trong năm ngoái. Tuy vậy, báo cáo đánh giá đây chỉ là phần nổi của tảng băng chìm, bởi có khoảng 7% nạn nhân của các vụ lừa đảo trực tuyến trình báo với chính quyền. Đáng chú ý, theo GASA, Việt Nam hiện là quốc gia có tỷ lệ lừa đảo qua mạng cao. Số vụ lừa đảo tại Việt Nam hiện có tỷ lệ 0,89 vụ/1.000 dân, với hơn 87.000 vụ lừa đảo được ghi nhận. Về thiệt hại, báo cáo của GASA ghi nhận con số 374 triệu USD trong năm 2021. Tương đương khoản thiệt hại 4.200 USD mỗi vụ lừa đảo và 3.8 USD nếu tính trên đầu người. Báo cáo của GASA sử dụng dữ liệu được cung cấp bởi 2 dự án Chống lừa đảo, ScamVN và công ty bảo mật Group-IB. Đang có ngày càng nhiều nỗ lực từ phía cơ quan chức năng và các tổ chức, doanh nghiệp tại Việt Nam nhằm chống lại các vụ tấn công mạng và lừa đảo trực tuyến. Ảnh: Trọng Đạt Đánh giá của GASA cho thấy, các cuộc tấn công lừa đảo trực tuyến tại Việt Nam đang gia tăng và ngày càng trở nên chuyên nghiệp hơn. Các dạng lừa đảo qua mạng phổ biến nhất trong nước là lừa đảo tài chính, lừa đảo danh tính và lừa đảo tình cảm. Bên cạnh đó, các loại hình lừa đảo mua hàng online và lừa đảo đầu tư (đặc biệt là qua các ứng dụng) cũng rất phổ biến. Báo cáo cũng ghi nhận số lượng các cuộc tấn công mạng lớn ở Việt Nam trong năm 2021 đã giảm xuống. Mặc dù vậy, các loại hình lừa đảo trực tuyến lại ngày càng trở nên tinh vi hơn. Chỉ tính riêng về số vụ lừa đảo qua email, Việt Nam hiện xếp hàng đầu trong các quốc gia ở khu vực Đông Nam Á. Theo tập đoàn Group-IB - một trong những công ty an ninh mạng lớn nhất của Nga, đơn vị này ghi nhận đã có một vụ lừa đảo trực tuyến quy mô lớn xảy ra trong năm 2022 tại Việt Nam với 27 tổ chức và 7.800 cá nhân trở thành nạn nhân. Để chống lại các vụ lừa đảo này, thời gian qua nhiều cơ quan, tổ chức tại Việt Nam đã đưa ra các sáng kiến nhằm giúp người dùng tìm kiếm và báo cáo khi phát hiện các gian lận trực tuyến. Chỉ tính riêng trong năm 2021, đã có 113.384 trang web lừa đảo được người dùng Việt báo cáo tới hệ thống của dự án Chống lừa đảo và ScamVN. Đây là hai dự án phi lợi nhuận về phòng chống lừa đảo tại Việt Nam. Trong đó, hơn 22.000 website đã bị liệt vào “danh sách đen” của những đơn vị này. Số vụ tấn công phishing được ghi nhận tại các quốc gia Đông Nam Á trong năm 2021 và 2 quý đầu năm 2022. Số liệu: Kaspersky Dữ liệu của Securelist cho thấy, Việt Nam hiện là quốc gia xếp ở vị trí số 1 về tỷ lệ máy tính dính ít nhất một cuộc tấn công bằng phần mềm độc hại (8,69%). “Việt Nam hiện vẫn đứng đầu trong top các nước Đông Nam Á về số cuộc tấn công lừa đảo (phishing), năm ngoái là hơn 4 triệu và năm nay là hơn 5 triệu vụ”, đại diện dự án Chống lừa đảo chia sẻ. Theo Interpol, việc gia tăng các vụ tấn công lừa đảo tại Việt Nam và Đông Nam Á, bởi kẻ xấu giờ đây có thể tiếp cận với các công cụ tấn công phishing dễ dàng. Trên thị trường “chợ đen”, công cụ lừa đảo được cung cấp như một loại hình dịch vụ với mức giá chỉ 20 USD (khoảng 500.000 đồng).	
Accordingly, a source from Vneconomy newspaper said that the types of data that must be stored in Vietnam will include: 1. Data on personal information of service users in Vietnam. 2. Data created by service users in Vietnam: Service user account name, service usage time, credit card information, email address, registered network address (IP) last login, logout, registered phone number associated with the account or data. 3. Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam: friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts. The form of data storage in Vietnam is decided by the enterprise. The data retention period starts from the time the enterprise receives the data storage request to the end of the request, a minimum of 24 months. Foreign enterprises doing business in Vietnam in fields such as telecommunications services, e-commerce, etc. are required to store data. (Photo courtesy of CEID) According to VietNamPlus newspaper, businesses that have to store data in Vietnam include domestic enterprises; foreign enterprises conducting business in Vietnam in one of the following fields: - Telecommunication services; – Store and share data in cyberspace; providing national or international domain names to service users in Vietnam; - Ecommerce; online payment; payment intermediary; transport connection services through cyberspace; – Services of providing, managing or operating other information in cyberspace in the form of messages, voice calls, video calls, email messages, online chats; – Social networks and social media; - Online video games. In particular, a foreign enterprise conducting business in Vietnam must set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam in case the services provided by the enterprise are used to commit violations of the law on law. Cybersecurity has been notified in writing by the Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control Department (A05) of the Ministry of Public Security and has requested in writing to coordinate, prevent, investigate and handle but refuse to accept. inadequately complying with or preventing, obstructing, disabling or invalidating network security protection measures taken by the specialized network security force. In case of force majeure, cannot comply with the request, the foreign enterprise needs to notify A05 within 3 working days to check the authenticity of the force majeure. In this case, the enterprise has 30 working days to find a solution. The request to store data, set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam is decided by the Minister of Public Security, the time limit for enterprises to implement is within 12 months from the date the Minister issues the decision. In case the data collected, exploited, analyzed or processed is incompletely by the enterprise, the enterprise must coordinate with A05 to confirm and store the types of data currently being collected and exploited. , analysis, processing. In case an enterprise collects, exploits, analyzes and additionally processes data to be stored, the enterprise must coordinate with A05 to add it to the list of data that must be stored in Vietnam. .	
"Vitaly Kamluk revealed a possible ""Digital Dystopia"" when the online defense industry is removed from the equation. The ""shutdown"" of the cybersecurity industry will open a wide door for criminals to exploit users' data - from financial information, health issues, to travel plans, spending ... At the same time, fraud in sales transactions is also possible as everyone can use someone else's identity to make purchases and even transfer money. Without access control, surveys and e-voting can be rigged. No one has a personal account online and nothing is private anymore. Try to imagine a world without cybersecurity - Photo 1. “Global cybersecurity spending is projected to soar to $460 billion in the coming years, almost double the cumulative spending in 2021 and roughly equal to Thailand's current total GDP. The current threat landscape can take this forecast a few levels up if we consider the actual worldwide situation. So it's not unusual to question why we invest so much in cybersecurity and whether it's worth saving all the money we've spent on cybersecurity elsewhere,"" Kamluk said. Although possible, Mr. Kamluk listed reasons why no one would choose to live in a world without cybersecurity: No encryption, no privacy, no secrecy; No access control; No integrity validation. Beautiful cosmic images transmitted to Earth by the James Webb Space Telescope Lack of integrity also makes news and information unreliable, and fake news and misinformation are therefore expected to increase. Basically, anything can be faked in a world without cybersecurity. “I see a world without cybersecurity as a 'digital disaster' where no one can fully exploit the opportunities of the latest technologies that we possess. Without the companies and solutions working behind the scenes to protect our data, our identities, the news we read, and the apps and devices we use, we'll be on our own. overcome the risks and I am sure that no one would choose to live in such a chaotic world. From July 2021 to August 2022, Kaspersky detected and prevented more than 7.2 billion attacks by malicious actors including malware and malicious web content worldwide. From August 2021 to July 2022, APAC was a vulnerable region as the percentage of malicious objects detected by Kaspersky solutions in the region was 35%, compared to globally. India, Japan, Vietnam, China and Indonesia are the top five countries in terms of infection efforts."	
"The data of a security firm alone shows that, in the first half of this year, cybercriminals have carried out 11,298,154 attacks on the web of small and medium-sized enterprises in ASEAN, of which more than 2 are in Vietnam. .07 million calls. Information about malicious activities targeting small and medium enterprises in Southeast Asia (ASEAN) in the first half of this year has just been announced by security firm Kaspersky. The data is recorded at small and medium-sized businesses with 50-200 employees and agreed to provide statistics for this security firm's solution. Statistics on malicious activities targeting small and medium enterprises in ASEAN in the first half of this year, recorded from the system of security firm Kaspersky. Specifically, cybercriminals have carried out nearly 11.3 million attacks on the web of small businesses, of which Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand are the countries with the most attacks on the web of small and medium enterprises. total, nearly 5.2 million, more than 2.07 million and over 1.35 million respectively. Web, or online threats are cybersecurity risks that can cause many unwanted actions on the Internet environment, created from vulnerabilities on the end user, developer or operational side. web services or the web services themselves. Besides the web threat, security firm Kaspersky recorded a total of 373,138 trojan-PSW attempts to infiltrate the systems of small and medium enterprises in the ASEAN region. In the first six months of this year, the countries that recorded the most incidents included Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. Trojan-PSW is malware that steals passwords and other account information that helps attackers gain access to corporate networks and steal sensitive information. According to a representative of Kaspersky Southeast Asia, owners of small and medium businesses may think that their company is too small to be a target of cybercriminals. This thinking is quite reasonable because usually, the attacker will look for the highest profit with the least effort. “However, small and medium enterprises are often service providers for larger companies and are a link in the chain of operations. When a password-stealing software can get into a small company's system, it is entirely possible that the whole supply chain is compromised, as a result of a domino effect,"" Kaspersky expert analyzed. accumulate. Recently, cybercriminals have been constantly planning and executing attacks on SMEs in the ASEAN region. (Artwork: Internet) To avoid falling victim to web attacks and password-stealing Trojans, it is recommended that SMEs adhere to the ""least privilege"" rule when granting permissions, that is, employees are only authorized enough to get the job done. Businesses need to understand where important information is stored and who has access to it; from there, develop guidelines for new employees, including restricting access for different job positions. Along with that, the expert also recommends that businesses need to build a cybersecurity culture that helps prevent many attacks, such as a cybersecurity handbook for employees so that everyone has the knowledge and same information; store all passwords in a secure password manager, preventing employees from forgetting passwords and minimizing the possibility of outsiders accessing accounts; recommend that employees lock their computers when leaving their desks; Also consider installing anti-virus software to protect your device from viruses, trojans, and other malicious programs. In Vietnam, well aware of the importance of ensuring information security in digital transformation, in the Vietnamese digital platforms selected by the Ministry of Information and Communications for small and medium-sized enterprises in the SMEdx program, there have been platforms to support businesses to ensure information safety and security when participating in the digital environment. Vietnamese small and medium enterprises can visit smedx.mic.gov.vn to experience the excellent Vietnamese digital platforms that support digital transformation as well as ensure information security."	
"On October 17, Lam Dong Department of Health had a plan to build a model of self-defense, self-management and self-protection in terms of information security and security in the health sector. The purpose is to strengthen the leadership of the Party Committee and the head of the unit in ensuring network information security and safety. Raising awareness and responsibilities of officials, public servants, public employees and employees to actively participate in the movement of all people to protect national security, building a safety agency for security, order and safety. information security in the network environment. Actively prevent and minimize the occurrence of criminal acts; not to be passive before the complicated situation of cybercrime and evil developments on social networks; ensure security, maintain social order and safety in all situations, create a civilized and healthy environment, effectively serve the political tasks of the unit. Regularly renew the propaganda and dissemination of legal education to mobilize the active participation of all officials and employees of Lam Dong Department of Health in crime prevention, raising awareness and skills. ability to prevent information loss in the network environment. The model of officials and employees of Lam Dong Department of Health to ensure ""Safety of information security in the health sector"" has the functions and tasks of researching, proposing to advise and direct the contents of ensuring safety. information security in the health sector, warning about the risks of information insecurity, proposing solutions to ensure information security in the health sector in Lam Dong, creating a favorable premise for the implementation of the fourth industrial network. The activities include: Survey, assessment and general synthesis of information safety and security protection capacity at Lam Dong Department of Health (plan to ensure information security and safety, process of handling incidents incidents, information security training plans, etc.). Survey and assess the current status of information technology infrastructure, LAN, WAN systems at the Department of Health. Survey on the awareness of the importance of keeping information secure of officials and public servants working at the Department of Health. Develop documentation to guide the implementation of the system model, and documents to guide the implementation of information security assurance at the Department of Health. Every 6 months, organizing seminars and training on information security issues for officials and employees at the Department of Health."	
"In recent years, the situation of network safety and security has become complicated and difficult to control for many countries. In our country, hostile and reactionary forces have been taking full advantage of cyberspace to oppose the revolutionary cause of the Party and people. Therefore, raising awareness of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace is very important and urgent... Benefits and challenges Cyberspace has brought many positive values ​​to the development of the Internet. development of society, organizations and individuals. Along with the continuous development of internet services, 4G, 5G network technologies, social networking sites, IoT devices, cloud computing services... more multidimensional, reflecting more vividly and instantaneously with all aspects of life and social relationships. It is this that has turned cyberspace into a new social space where people can perform their social behaviors, such as communication, creativity, labor, production, consumption, etc. learning and entertainment, not limited by geography, language, space and time. The benefits of cyberspace are also known as the digital foundation in the national digital transformation program, digital government development strategies, digital economy and digital society. According to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 749/QD-TTg dated June 3, 2020 approving the ""National Digital Transformation Program to 2025, with a vision to 2030"", cyberspace is the place where activities take place. activities of agencies, organizations, enterprises and people in the digital environment; The communication between the government and the people and businesses basically takes place in cyberspace. At that time, cyberspace really becomes a space with endless digital resources, affecting all economic, political, social and especially human fields. Along with great benefits, cyberspace is creating risks and challenges for national security, human security and social order and safety. These are the challenges of cyber intelligence, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism, the threat of a cyber war and a host of other threats. If the national cyberspace is not protected, State secrets will be exposed; important national infrastructure such as aviation information system, national electricity grid, road traffic, and important industrial facilities will be destroyed; The financial system, banking and many other sectors are stalled or dysfunctional. In the past time, hostile forces have taken advantage of the social network environment to distort the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation; enticing and inciting disgruntled elements, gathering forces, and establishing opposing organizations; spreading documents, calling for marches and demonstrations, causing instability in political security, social order and safety. In addition, cyberspace is also used to cause damage to property, spirit, health, and even human life. There are many online scams, people who post comments, comments, share, even make up false stories and clips that adversely affect the health, honor and reputation of the organization. organizations and individuals. Not only that, cyberspace is becoming and is the environment in a new form of warfare, which is cyber warfare. It is creating the risks of war without gun smoke, without front lines, without borders between countries with the participation of all actors in the network environment including: State-funded hacker groups support; professional, non-governmental hacker groups; Script Kiddies groups (amateur hacker)... According to the leader of the Ministry of Information and Communications (in his speech at the international conference and exhibition on Vietnam's cyber security - Vietnam Security Summit 2022 taking place on 23rd day of the 23rd. -6-2022): Cybercriminals tend to use new, modern technologies with many complex features, making the detection and handling of the consequences of attacks more complicated, taking a lot of time. more time. Malware attacks combined with artificial intelligence technology or using technology to simulate user behavior, to attack critical infrastructures, supply chains, factories, etc. challenges in the process of building digital government, digital economy and digital society. Stepping up propaganda and clearly defining responsibilities, the Resolution of the 13th Party Congress determined that: Ensuring network safety and security is one of the important tasks in the Strategy to protect the Fatherland in the new situation, the Strategy protect national security; especially in the context that our country is accelerating the process of digital transformation, building e-government, towards digital government, digital economy, digital society and digital citizens in the development orientation of the country in the next period. period 2021-2030. Over the past time, our Party and State have always paid close attention to and directed closely to the protection of network safety and security, and have issued many resolutions, directives and legal documents, such as: Decision No. 29-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on the Strategy for National Defense in Cyberspace, Resolution No.30-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on National Cybersecurity Strategy, Law on Cyber ​​Information Security 2015, Law on Cyber ​​Security 2018, Resolution No. 22/NQ-CP dated 18 October, 2019 of the Government on the Government's Action Program to implement Resolution 30 of the Politburo... Building and protecting the cyber environment is the responsibility of every cadre, party member and strata people to create a healthy, safe and sustainable virtual society on the internet, boldly expressing the national cultural identity. In order to improve understanding of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace, all levels and sectors need to do well in educating and raising awareness about the responsibility of building and protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace. . In which, focusing on propagating, disseminating and educating the Penal Code (2015) related to the field of information technology and telecommunications networks; Law on Cyberinformation Security (2015); Law on Cybersecurity (2018)... Preventing, preventing, responding to and overcoming consequences of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism and preventing and combating the risk of cyberwar. Condemn acts of using cyberspace for propaganda against the State; organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; false information; prostitution, social evils; vandalizing fine customs and traditions; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Struggling with the manifestations and actions of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; taking advantage of or abusing network security protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. ... Early education institutions put the national cyber security assurance educational content into the teaching curricula suitable to the discipline and grade level. Cyberattack activities are diverse and sophisticated, officials, party members and the masses need to be alert to the tricks of hostile forces. Currently, they are plotting to attack the websites of the Government, agencies, units, schools and businesses; fake websites to cheat and steal personal data; malicious code attack; attack anonymously with malicious software;... Hostile forces will take advantage of personal blogs to entice and incite disgruntled elements, gather forces, and establish transnational opposition organizations. sculpting the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation... All levels of Party committees, authorities, mass organizations, officials and party members need to raise their sense of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace. Raise the political awareness, responsibility and civic duty for the task of building and protecting the national cyberspace. Comply with the provisions of the law on network security protection; promptly provide information related to network security, threats to network security and other infringing acts, and comply with requests and instructions of competent state management agencies. Each individual needs to study and make good use of technical measures to ensure information security such as protecting personal accounts with 2-factor password authentication; make a habit of scanning for viruses before opening files; perform backup with important data;... Users should be wary of strange websites, unknown emails and suspicious links; update the browser version, operating system and programs used; Use reputable and regularly updated anti-virus software, do not turn off the anti-virus program at all times. Along with that, the agencies in charge of cybersecurity provide full information on development trends and threats from cyberspace; measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks. Enterprises providing services in cyberspace have increased warnings about the possibility of network insecurity provided by their units and guided on preventive measures; develop plans to deal with network security incidents; coordinate and create conditions for specialized forces in network security protection activities."	
On October 14, 2022, Ho Chi Minh City Police said that the unit is continuing to handle 04 individuals who posted false information on cyberspace. In two days from October 12 to 13, 2022, the Internal Political Security Department, the Cybersecurity Department and High-tech Crime Prevention Department, the Ho Chi Minh City Police Department coordinated with the Public Security Department of Binh Thanh District, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City. Go Vap, District 8, District 10 worked with 04 individuals, including: Mr. T.T.M (born in 1977, in Binh Thanh district, reporter of D.N.S.G Magazine), Mr. T.M.K (born in 1975, in Go Vap district, lecturer one University in the city), Mr. T.C.H (born in 1985, in District 8, doing freelance work), Mr. N.H.P (born in 1990, in District 10, programmer) about the behavior of using resources Personal facebook account posted misleading and untrue information related to Saigon Commercial Joint Stock Bank (SCB) and An Dong Investment Group Joint Stock Company, adversely affecting the security and order situation. in Ho Chi Minh City. Individuals at the Police Department. At the police station, 04 individuals were aware that their behavior was against the law, affecting the security and order situation in Ho Chi Minh City, and self-deleted false information. true and committed not to repeat the offense. Ho Chi Minh City Police continue to consolidate records and handle. Ho Chi Minh City Police recommends that all organizations and individuals participating in social networks need to verify information with clear origin, not to post, share, distribute or comment in agreement with fake news. misinformation, causing confusion in public opinion, negatively affecting the security and order situation; Violators will be severely punished according to the provisions of the law.	
The Minister of Information and Communications has just issued Decision No. 1762/QD-BTTTT, promulgating the Action Plan to implement the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from space network to 2025, vision to 2030. The decision was issued to organize the effective implementation of the tasks assigned in Decision No. 964/QD-TTg dated August 10, 2022 of the Prime Minister approving the Strategy National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from space to 2025, vision to 2030; define tasks, assign them to specific units; well perform the role of the Ministry of Information and Communications in presiding over, guiding and coordinating the implementation of the Strategy to improve national cybersecurity and safety capacity, realizing the vision of turning Vietnam into a superpower. country on network information security. At the same time, ensure the timely, synchronous, scientific and effective implementation of the tasks of the Ministry of Information and Communications and related agencies, organizations and businesses assigned in the Strategy; clearly define tasks, assign specific implementation responsibilities; proactively and promptly solve difficulties and problems during the implementation process to ensure the completion of the set tasks. [Priority island to ensure network information security for digital platforms] The tasks are determined with focus, implementation roadmap ensures feasibility; assign responsibilities according to the functions and tasks of the units; ensure close, effective and timely coordination among units in the implementation of tasks. According to the plan, the Department of Information Security shall assume the prime responsibility for, and coordinate with units in the Ministry of Information and Communications with, to unify the awareness from central to local levels about ensuring network safety and security is the responsibility of the Ministry of Information and Communications. of the whole political system; in which, the National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety coordinates the coordination between 4 forces (Ministries: Public Security, Defense, Information and Communication and Central Propaganda Department); promote the effective participation of the masses in the work of ensuring network safety and security and proactively respond to risks and challenges from cyberspace; coordinate in protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace according to their assigned functions and tasks; At least once a year, the Department of Information Security is also responsible for coordinating with relevant units. review and compile dossiers of request for inclusion of important information systems in accordance with law provisions on the list of important information systems for national security; monitoring and early warning of violations of the law in cyberspace for the national cyber infrastructure; ensure network safety and security for the process of implementing e-Government and digital transformation; develop policies and laws on data protection in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, especially important national data according to their assigned functions and tasks... Decision also assign specific tasks to departments, agencies and units under the Ministry of Information and Communications as well as the Vietnam Information Security Association; digital infrastructure enterprises; digital platform owners and information system owners; network information security enterprises; supporting specialized units of information technology/information security of ministries, ministerial-level agencies, and agencies attached to the Government; Departments of Information and Communications in implementing the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace The decision takes effect from September 21, 2022./ .	
"The Global Anti-Scam Alliance (GASA) recently reported that online scams are becoming more complex and common. The rate in Vietnam is the highest in Southeast Asia. Specifically, in 2021 alone, the whole world has more than 266 million online fraud cases, causing about 50 billion VND in damage to Internet users. In addition, Securelist data also shows that Vietnam is the country with the highest rate of online malware attacks in Southeast Asia. Damages are recorded up to 374 million USD in 2021. Thus, on average, each fraud case in Vietnam causes losses up to 4,200 USD. According to GASA, Vietnam is home to an online fraud rate of about 0.89 cases per 1000 people, with an average of more than 87,000 recorded scams nationwide. The report was collected by GASA from 2 Anti-Phishing projects, ScamVN and security company Group-IB. GASA also said that online scams in Vietnam have gradually become more sophisticated and professional. For email scams alone, Vietnam ranks first in Southeast Asia. New types of attacks In Vietnam, data is collected by the Anti-Phishing project, ScamVN and Coc Coc. In 2021, a total of 113,384 phishing websites were reported, and 22,518 websites were blacklisted by these organizations. In addition, the reporting support units include the National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center (NCSC) under the Ministry of Information and Communications, and the Vietnam Counterfeiting Information Center (TINGIA). Replying to Zing, a security expert of the Anti-Phishing project, said that the most common phishing tricks in Vietnam today are mostly through brand messaging services (SMS brandname), targeting banks to hijack the victim's account. However, the number of bank phishing attacks is showing signs of decreasing compared to the daily data on the website chongluadao.vn. lua dao brings you an Anti-Phishing Tool integrated to Twitter in August, reducing the risk of sharing malicious links. Photo: Xuan Sang. This expert shared a new form of fraud, impersonating brands like Tiki, Shopee, and Lazada to recruit collaborators, most recently the trick of stealing Telegram accounts in some non-technical ways (social media). engineering), entices to take a screenshot, causing the victim to lose the login authentication code (OTP), leading to the account being taken over. Next is black credit, which makes many people intimidated, smeared and bothered. Despite being warned, the number of victims of online scams is still very large. Experts from Anti-Phishing said that the reason comes from the lack of access to information and the mentality of wanting to make a lot of money. ""Part of the reason why the number of scams is so high is because victims lack access to information, lack of work or are not satisfied with their existing income. That leads to a number of young people to middle-aged people, mostly in remote areas are lured into fraudulent websites, appropriating property or information. Psychology leads to damage partly due to wanting a lot of money, not thinking carefully, partly because of fear and curiosity."" , this expert shared. The project also cooperates with cybersecurity company Cyradar to share phishing website data, works with thuvienphapluat.vn to support victims legally, including the process of reporting to the authorities. . The Chongluadao group on Telegram with more than 10,000 members also helps users update information and experience to protect themselves against online scams. ""Anti-phishing is a long-term task because criminals are increasingly sophisticated, using many different technological techniques to commit fraud. At the same time, they always think that many new fraud scenarios with large scale and complexity. and very sophisticated,"" shared the project's security expert."	
"When the rice is not healthy, the soup is not sweet, Facebook becomes a place to vent the anger of Vietnamese girls on foreign boys. There are many types of ""exploiting"" Western boys. Fall in love and then break it. Western boy-love groups used to be a useful place for women to talk about culture shock when falling in love with foreigners, share tricks, and help unmask many foreigners who seduce their partners. shoot sexy videos to sell to foreign black websites. However, some groups gradually became confused with many cases where ""victims"" were called every day, accused, stigmatized, turned into a place of ""exploitation"". Foreign men are discussed and criticized when the girl falls out of love. The seal of Western men who are often ""peeled"" is to catch fish with many hands and have a sexually transmitted disease. No need to know each other, other members rushed to criticize the owner's poor appearance: ""It's too old"", ""This Vietnamese grandpa is trying to see if anyone is watching"", ""Looks so mean""… Yes, she told me. It was as if he knew thoroughly about how this man caught a fish with two hands. Since then, countless controversies broke out between the rival girls. They went to each other's Facebook pages to scrutinize each image and then sent it to the ""disguise"" group. Wanting to win when arguing, the girls did not use any tricks, most notably turning to slander their ex-lover's rival, as ""can't be broken for bad food"". Out of love, go online to ""pee"" for fun The expatriate community in Vietnam has spread the news about groups that ""smack"" Western boys on Facebook. Many foreigners try to report bad content (report) to Facebook to avoid pictures of their private information being posted publicly, but it is almost not available. There were many people who threatened to sue the girls for spreading their information, but it was still there. When this group was reported a lot and Facebook disabled, another group sprang up. The person who threatened to sue also did not know who to sue, because all anonymous accounts created groups. So, some foreign men who were ""unmasked"" also formed groups to speak ill of Vietnamese women. They also post pictures of their daughters dating and then criticize them for mining, stealing... They use the way girls do: posting photos of them and cropping messages to ""take hats"" as they like. ""peeled"". After a period of opposition from Vietnamese girls, this type of group is often hidden, only showing up when a foreign member of the group shares. In turn, being ""unmasked"", the girls were ""sneaky"" more than before, afraid of foreigners threatening to sue, they turned to ""unmask"" their old rival. These battles have a small degree of damage. Many girls did not expect that because of their unfinished love story with foreigners, they became the focus of humiliation for others. Many services that read messages or hack Facebook accounts quickly enter groups to advertise. Due to the fierce quarrel with the love enemy, even the sisters' relatives also became victims. For example, because of a daughter's argument with a foreign lover, suddenly one day the image of a certain mother was ""disclosed"" by her daughter's love rival. The mother was also texted by her child's rival with vulgar words. Group administrators do not prevent cyberbullying, but encourage conflict. Some administrators use profanity to respond to comments, because the more quarrels, the more crowded the group, the easier it is for them to advertise. It is easy to see in posts that encourage buying such as ""The skin is so bad, use this abc product"", ""I cut my charm here and I got married right away"" or ""Book a table at this bar with many Western boys. very”… Images, information of others, and arguments become tools to help groups increase interaction. Therefore, many administrators deliberately ""bait"" members to quarrel. Groups with a large number of followers are more discreet, because if they are reported too much, the group will ""collapse"", the administrators will lose business. Girls invite each other to ""unmask"" Western boys Girls invite each other to ""unmask"" Tay Mat boys close together, beware of ""sticking"" to the law Many studies have shown that victims of cyberbullying live miserable lives. with sequelae. Research by the organization ADL (Activities of daily living), shows that 23% of people who are bullied suffer from insomnia, difficulty concentrating and often feel afraid. It is very rare that social networks are responsible for cyberbullying incidents, so 16% of people who are bullied online suffer severe consequences and find their way back. Some people have to change their place of residence, some people fall into depression, which affects their jobs. From October 1, 2022, Decree 53/2022/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity takes effect. In Clause 1, Article 19 of this Decree, it is mentioned that a common case in cyberspace today is information with content that humiliates, slanders others, and disturbs public opinion. The Law on Cybersecurity also has specific provisions dealing with speakers of confidential content that affects the reputation and honor of others."	
According to Decree 53/2022/ND-CP, domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam must store their data. the following in Vietnam (the form of storage will be decided by the enterprise): Data on personal information of service users in Vietnam; Data generated by service users in Vietnam: account name, service time, credit card information, email address, last logged in and logged out network (IP) address , the registered phone number associated with the account or data; Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam: friends, groups with which service users connect or interact. The data storage period starts from the time the enterprise receives the data storage request to the end of the request; Minimum storage period is 24 months.	
"The National Cyber ​​Security Monitoring Center (Information Security Administration) has just said that in the third quarter of 2022, the Center has recorded, warned and guided to handle 2,878 cyber attacks that caused problems on the Internet. information systems in Vietnam, an increase of 15.5% compared to the third quarter of 2021. Accordingly, the number of cyberattacks causing problems on domestic information systems in September 2022 increased by 19.9% ​​over the same period in 2021 and by 8.9% compared to August 2022. Accumulating from the beginning of 2022 to the end of September, the Department of Information Security has recorded, warned and guided to handle 9,519 cyber attacks causing problems on information systems in Vietnam. Thus, on average, in the first 9 months of 2022, every month there are nearly 1,060 cyber attacks causing problems to information systems in Vietnam. Recorded more than 9,500 cyber attacks in 9 months - Photo 1 Previously, in August 2022, the National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center had recorded, warned and guided to handle 907 cyber attacks that caused problems to information systems in Vietnam. down 7.7% compared to July 2022 and up 6.9% over the same period in August 2021. In August, the number of Vietnamese IP addresses in botnets (ghost computer networks) was 619,610 addresses, down 5% compared to July 2022 and down 43.1% over the same period last year. The number of blocked phishing websites was 163, an increase of 83.1% compared to July 2022, an increase of 89.5% over the same period in August 2021. In the first 7 months of 2022, out of 7,624 cyberattacks that caused problems on information systems in Vietnam, the number of malicious attack incidents was 4,703 incidents, accounting for more than 61.6% and up to 4 times. 3 times the number of attacks that change the interface. Since the beginning of the year, an average of more than 760,000 Vietnamese IP addresses are in the botnet each month. In order to ensure network information security, serve to build e-government, closely link with assurance of information safety, network security, national security, protection of personal information, the Ministry of Information and Communications The media said it continued to strengthen the scanning work in Vietnam's cyberspace. Along with that, continue to evaluate, make statistics, promote propaganda and warnings on the mass media for users to know and avoid; at the same time, there are widespread warnings, urging the review of weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and signs of cyber attacks to state agencies, specialized information security units, large state-owned enterprises, and state-owned enterprises. financial institutions, banks. In mid-September, 2022, the National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center launched a nationwide campaign to ""clean up"" malicious code in Vietnam's cyberspace. With 20,000 people participating in the Cyber-Malware Cleanup Campaign, discovered more than 13,000 people using unsafe browsers, 10,000 people using unsafe operating systems, nearly 3,000 thousand IPs related to data leaks. data and nearly 9,000 IPs are in botnets (ghost computer networks). The National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center said that anti-malware software will be updated, allowing free use."	
"On the afternoon of October 11, the Banking Digital Transformation Forum organized by the Central Economic Commission and the State Bank of Vietnam was held with the theme ""The banking industry is proactive and pioneers in participating in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. "". The Vietnam Banks Association and IEC Group (IEC Group) are the organizers of the event. The forum aims to become a forum for leaders of commercial banks, organizations providing technology solutions, and associations in Vietnam to have the opportunity to exchange and share experiences with experts. domestic and international reputation in the digital transformation process, thereby providing more suggestions and recommendations to contribute to the development of the banking industry in the future. Banking Digital Transformation Forum combines cyber defense drills -0 Overview of the forum On the sidelines of the High-Level Forum, activities also took place, including the Cyber ​​Defense Proactive Exercise Program – DF Cyber ​​Defense. This program is organized by the Information Technology Department - State Bank of Vietnam, National Cybersecurity Monitoring Center (NCSC) - Information Security Administration and IEC Group. In this program, 200 cyber warfare experts from 50 banking and financial institutions participate in a hypothetical situation built as a miniature information system model of an organization, enterprise. From there, the teams participating in the drill will receive a log file of the email server system and must perform an attack inside the organization's information system to find out the security weaknesses that exist in the system. system. In addition, within the framework of the event, there will be an exhibition of technology products on digital transformation of the banking industry from more than 30 leading domestic and international solution providers and banks. Along with that, the high-level roundtable session focused on discussing major trends in the banking industry's digital transformation, new banking models and services; propose perfecting institutions and policies to facilitate active participation in the fourth industrial revolution of the banking industry; discuss new technology solutions to ensure safety and network security for the financial - banking sector..."	
"According to Lieutenant General To An Xo, Chief of the Office of the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Public Security has detected and prevented incidents and risks causing insecurity and safety of the network system, cyberattacks and cyber espionage activities. ; detect and handle dozens of cases of disclosure or loss of State secrets in cyberspace; verify and handle hundreds of domestic information systems attacked by hackers. Standing 24/7 monitoring for important national security information systems; detect and analyze tens of millions of network attack alerts. Inspect and guide ensuring network security and protecting state secrets in the network environment at ministries, departments, branches, localities and agencies and units in charge of domestic information systems. Advising on the development and improvement of policies and laws to improve the efficiency of state management of cyber security personal data protection regulations…). However, the situation of cyber security in the country and the safety of the national cybersecurity system continues to be complicated, posing many difficulties and challenges in ensuring national security and preventing crime. offense. The risk of insecurity and information safety is still very high, especially at some central agencies of the Party and State, and large financial and economic groups of Vietnam. Hacker groups often use dangerous lines of malicious code to attack, infiltrate, and appropriate state secret information and documents. Criminals using high technology take advantage of most of the OTT service platforms (which are solutions to provide content such as images, messages, call users, etc.) on the Internet without a provider. or any agency that can intervene), social networks, applications, technology services of these enterprises to commit illegal acts. The illegal exchange, purchase and sale of personal information and data in cyberspace takes place publicly. On some forums, subjects often exchange and share methods and tools to attack networks to steal information and data of agencies and organizations. The reason for the above situation is that the legal corridor to ensure network security and safety for the national cybersecurity system has not been completed. There is no mechanism to allow agencies in charge of ensuring network security and safety for the national cybersecurity system to maximize their ability to access and exploit national databases and information infrastructure to serve the needs of the public. National security protection services, ensuring social order and safety (such as: verifying bank accounts, blocking and freezing accounts, temporarily suspending transactions, collecting information, Internet account data , telecommunications shows signs of violating the law...). The coordination between ministries, departments, branches, localities and socio-political organizations in ensuring network safety and security is not regular, close, timely, not practical, but heavy on form. awake; there is a status of ""white-blocking"" the task of protecting network security for specialized agencies. The leadership and direction of state management in the field of cyber security in some agencies and units have not been paid due attention; The work of self-inspection, inspection, detection and handling of violations is still not effective, thorough and timely. A number of inadequacies and limitations are the causes and conditions for various types of crimes in the field of cybersecurity that have not been promptly directed and dealt with the problem of ""sim"" phones and ""junk"" bank accounts. ""; a number of new technology fields have not been promptly managed and advised to improve the legal system, and have been taken advantage of by subjects to commit illegal acts. In order to improve the effectiveness of state management of cybersecurity and the safety of the national cybersecurity system, the Ministry of Public Security continues to implement synchronous solutions, which is to do a good job of grasping the situation. , forecast to have timely solutions and policies with new practical problems arising in state management of network security. Advise on promoting activities of the Steering Committee ""National Cybersecurity and Safety"", perfecting the inter-sectoral coordination mechanism to solve practical problems in a mobile, flexible, synchronous and unified manner. and efficient. Continue to effectively implement the project ""People's security battle in cyberspace"", bringing into play the synergy of the political system and all classes of people in ensuring network security. and crime prevention and control using high technology. Strengthen inspection, examination and guidance in the state management of network security; promptly detect inadequacies and limitations in order to propose and overcome shortcomings and limitations, and improve the effectiveness of state management. Actively coordinate with ministries, branches and localities in researching and building technological infrastructure to ensure safety and cyber security autonomously, capable of proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace; protect information systems important to national security and information systems of state agencies; protect national data, personal data in cyberspace... Focus on advising on completing the legal corridor in the field of cybersecurity and safetyfor the national network security system. In the immediate future, the focus is on proposing to the National Assembly Standing Committee and the Government to soon issue a number of decrees, such as the Decree on protection of personal data, the Decree on sanctioning administrative violations in the field of cyber security. ... To improve the qualifications and capacity of the contingent of staff engaged in state management of cyber security to be qualified and capable, in association with the implementation of the Project ""Training human resources for cybersecurity, period 2021-2025, vision to 2030”. Paying attention to investment, building, improving potentials and investing, equipping with modern professional tools and means, keeping up with the development of world science and technology for cyber security forces and prevention and control. crime using high technology. Strengthen international cooperation relations, take advantage of learning experiences in the work of ensuring network security."	
"Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam has just signed Decision No. 964/QD-TTg approving the National Cybersecurity and Safety Strategy, proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace to 2025, with a vision to 2030. The strategy was promulgated on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of Information and Communications and the Ministry of Public Security. The strategy to identify targets by 2025 will maintain the 25-30th rank on the Cybersecurity and Safety Index according to the assessment of the International Telecommunication Union. Building a system of people's security posture in cyberspace capable of commanding, connecting, sharing information, receiving and early handling information harmful to national cyberspace from ministries, industries, localities, telecommunications businesses, Internet, digital content services. The goal is that by 2030, Vietnam will become one of Asia's leading cybersecurity and safety centers. Forming a market for safety and network security, with competition and influence throughout the region and the world. Maintaining the safe and secure market revenue, annual growth of 10-20%. Forming forces to ensure network safety and security at ministries, branches, state agencies, socio-political organizations and state corporations and corporations; to ensure that each state agency, organization or enterprise has a department assigned to act as the focal point, responsible for ensuring network safety and security. Encourage other businesses to have a unit to ensure network safety and security. Protecting the national cyber infrastructure, with a focus on the information system important to national security in accordance with the law on cyber security. Protecting information systems in 11 important areas should be prioritized to ensure network information security (according to Decision No. 632/QD-TTg dated May 10, 2017 of the Prime Minister). The strategy also emphasizes the goal of laying the foundation for the formation of a network security industry and a cyberinformation security industry; building a suitable policy foundation for startups in terms of network safety and security; Establishment of the National Cybersecurity Association. Along with that, it will develop 3-5 key information security products and services, dominate the domestic market, and be able to compete internationally. Striving for annual revenue growth of the safety and network security market by 20-30%. According to this Strategy, funding for safety and network security will reach at least 10% of the expenditure on science and technology, digital transformation, and information technology application. To accomplish the above objectives, the Strategy sets out 12 specific tasks and solutions to accomplish these goals. The strategy clearly defines responsibilities and coordination to ensure national cybersecurity and safety among the three forces of the Ministry of Information and Communications, the Ministry of Public Security, and the Ministry of Defense. Along with strengthening the leadership role of the Party and management of the State; Completing the legal corridor; Protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace; protect digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital data and national cyberspace infrastructure; Creating digital trust, building an honest, civilized and healthy network environment and preventing law violations in cyberspace..., the Strategy emphasizes solutions to mastering and autonomous technology, products, and services. service capable of proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace. Accordingly, in order to lay the foundation for the network information security industry and develop network information security products, network information security enterprises will shift from breadth to depth, focusing on developing 3-5 products. key, national brand. Switch from large, specialized products to universal products that ""popularize"" network information security products. The Ministry of Information and Communications supports the development of two main groups of cyberinformation security enterprises. A group of large enterprises has the potential to play a leading role in the market. A group of innovative start-ups with excellent ideas and solutions. Along with that, the Ministry directs to promote the establishment of a National Center for Research, Development, and Testing of Cyberinformation Security Products and Services at large ICT enterprises..."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing their personal views in cyberspace, however, when participating in online comments, people need to be careful. Taking advantage to transmit malicious information Currently we have nearly 100 million people and the number of people using smartphones, using vehicles, devices and using social networks with a very high rate (on 70 million subscribers). According to Associate Professor, Dr. Do Canh Thin, Deputy Director of the Center for Non-Traditional Security Management and Administration, Vietnam National University, Hanoi, cybercrime takes place mostly in areas ranging from security breaches. country, to fraudulently appropriate property, slander and humiliate others, but the most dangerous now are hostile forces, disgruntled people often use social networks to oppose the Party and State with many different methods. Associate Professor, Dr. Do Canh Thin said that taking advantage of cyberspace is the ability to spread quickly to every corner of social life and directly affect the subjects accessing information. Subjects often used a variety of tricks, distorting, distorting facts, exaggerating facts, making malicious comments, and installing intentions. Bad information, ambiguity, makes people accessing information do not know what is the truth and fluctuating, even losing faith in the Party and State. The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing their personal views - 1 Associate Professor, Dr. Do Canh Thin. Not only using social networks to carry out anti-party activities against the Party and State at times when major political events take place in the country such as the Party Congress, the election of National Assembly deputies and People's Council deputies at all levels, and social networks. The association is also a fertile ""land"" for frauds to appropriate property, insulting honor and slandering others. Even selling banned goods through social networks takes place continuously and is increasingly sophisticated, such as pretending to be police officers, prosecutors, courts calling and texting threatening to ask victims to transfer money to the subject's account. ; impersonating a bank officer to send a text message asking the victim to provide an account number and OTP code, and then withdraw money; creating websites impersonating reputable agencies, organizations and companies to raise capital for investment in real estate projects; or a ""drawing cake"" business model to entice people who want to make quick money to transfer capital contributions; to impersonate facebook owners, zalo text messages to borrow money to appropriate. Facing the complicated development of cybercrime, the police force has closely coordinated with internet service providers and management agencies to carry out many synchronous solutions to fight and prevent. Thereby, hundreds of websites and thousands of network accounts with malicious and fraudulent content were detected, removed and handled; Hundreds of criminals of infringing upon national security, fraudulently appropriating property, human trafficking, and insulting other people's honor through cyberspace have also been severely handled before the law. However, according to experts, that result is still unsatisfactory, because the fight against this type of crime faces many difficulties. Professor, Dr. Nguyen Xuan Yem, former Director of the People's Police Academy, acknowledged that for ordinary criminals, it is very difficult to collect and establish evidence. But for new crimes that we call non-traditional crimes, whose evidence is mostly electronic evidence, the collection and establishment of evidence is even more difficult. The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing their personal views - 2 Professor, Dr. Nguyen Xuan Yem, former Director of the People's Police Academy. (Photo: People's Public Security Newspaper) arrow_forward_iosRead more Powered by GliaStudio The Law on Cybersecurity has been in effect for more than 3 years, but social network users still do not really understand all the provisions of the law as well as the acts of being violated. banned to be able to use social networks effectively, avoiding unfortunate violations. At the beginning of 2019 when the new Cybersecurity Law took effect, besides the overwhelming majority of people supporting it, there were still some conflicting opinions. There are even subjects with bad intentions and motives who have taken advantage of the situation to incite and advertise some of the contents specified in the law that will stifle freedom of democracy and freedom of speech. However, in fact, more than 3 years after the law took effect, the people's right to freedom of speech continued to be expanded. The cyber environment becomes more cultural and healthier. Lawyer Tran Tuan Anh, from the Hanoi Bar Association, said that the law does not prohibit people from expressing their views and sharing information on cyberspace, but there are limits to any freedom. Therefore, when sharing and commenting on information in cyberspace, people need to pay attention to the source and accuracy of information as well as the purpose of providing information. The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing their opinions. Individuals - 3 Lawyers Tran Tuan Anh. “The Cybersecurity Law does not prohibit people from expressing and expressing their personal views in cyberspace. However, when participating in comments, or expressing personal views on cyberspace, people need to consider whether the content they participate in on that cyberspace is infringing.into Article 8 of the Cybersecurity Law?”, lawyer Tuan Anh said. Ms. Nguyen Minh Hong - information technology expert shared that the Law on Cybersecurity and other legal documents not only contribute to national security, social order and safety, but also better protection. dignity and honor of citizens in cyberspace, but also to help people become more aware of their rights and obligations when participating in social networks. Besides, it is also a bitter medicine, preventing fake information. Lawyer Nguyen Thien, Anh Vu law firm, said that people's right to freedom of speech is not restricted, but on the contrary is better guaranteed by the Law on Cybersecurity, as long as those activities are within the limits for permitted by Vietnamese law. “Every freedom is limited, not only those who post will be administratively handled or prosecuted for criminal liability, but even those who share this information without verification will also be considered. is a violation of the law”. With thousands of subjects who have been administratively and criminally handled by the authorities when spreading false information on social networks for the purpose of saying like, viewing views or distorting the Party's guidelines and policies, the laws of The State, hundreds of cases where citizens have had to resort to law enforcement agencies to use the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law to protect their honor and dignity in the internet environment have shown that the Law on Cybersecurity is practical laws come into life to better ensure national security as well as the legitimate rights and interests of subjects in the internet environment. However, to ensure their own safety, each social network user must always be alert to the information posted. More importantly, there must be a culture and respect for the law for the peace and development of society."	
Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam has just signed Decree 53/2022/ND-CP on behalf of the Prime Minister on August 15, 2022 detailing a number of articles of the Cybersecurity Law, of which notably data data about personal information of service users in Vietnam must be stored in Vietnam. Accordingly, from October 1, 2022, the data that must be stored in Vietnam includes: data about personal information of service users in Vietnam; data created by service users in Vietnam (service user account name, service usage time, credit card information, email address, recent login and logout network address) first, the registered phone number associated with the account or data); data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam: friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts. Decree 53/2022/ND-CP dated August 15, 2022 clearly stipulates the storage of Vietnamese user data (Illustration image. Image source: Van Anh) Thus, not all data is stored. transmissions in cyberspace must be stored in Vietnam. This regulation does not affect the circulation of digital data, hinder the operation of enterprises. The Decree also specifies the order and procedures for requesting data storage, and setting up branches or representative offices of foreign enterprises in Vietnam. Enterprises can decide on the form of data storage in Vietnam. The data retention period starts from the time the enterprise receives the data storage request to the end of the request, a minimum of 24 months. Representative office or branch in Vietnam starts from the time the enterprise receives the request to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam until the enterprise no longer operates in Vietnam or the specified service is no longer available. provided in Vietnam. System logs to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security specified at Point b, Clause 2, Article 26, Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity (Law No. 24/2018/QH14, dated 12 June 2018) is stored for a minimum of 12 months. The Decree clearly stipulates that the Minister of Public Security shall issue a decision to request data storage, and to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. The Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control (Ministry of Public Security) shall notify, guide, monitor, supervise and urge enterprises to comply with data storage requirements, and set up branches or offices. representative office in Vietnam; and at the same time notify relevant agencies to perform state management functions according to their competence. Within 12 months from the date the Minister of Public Security issues a decision, the enterprises specified at Point a, Clause 3, Article 26 of this Decree must complete data storage, set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. Vietnam. Currently, our country's data in cyberspace has been widely used for profit purposes, but the State does not have enough legal corridors to manage, even being used for political conspiracy. rule or violate the law. Thus, the data storage, setting up a branch or representative office in Vietnam only applies to some enterprises that have activities such as collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about information. personal data, service user relationship data, service user data in Vietnam, is not applicable to all businesses. Officially taking effect from January 1, 2019, the Law on Cybersecurity includes 7 Chapter 43 Articles that stipulate the basic contents of cybersecurity protection with information systems important for national security. ; prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; deploying network security protection activities and stipulating the responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals	
Specifically, the data that must be stored in Vietnam includes: Data about the personal information of service users in Vietnam; data created by service users in Vietnam (service user account name, service usage time, credit card information, email address, recent login and logout network address) First, the registered phone number is tied to the account or data; data about the relationship of the service user in Vietnam: Friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts. Regarding data storage, setting up branches or representative offices in Vietnam of foreign enterprises, Decree 53 stipulates: Foreign enterprises having business activities in Vietnam in one of the regulated fields The law is required to store data in Clause 1, Article 26 of the Decree and set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam in case the service provided by the enterprise is used to commit violations of the law on security. network has been notified by the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (A05) under the Ministry of Public Security and has requested coordination, prevention, investigation and handling in writing, but fails to comply. inadequately comply with or prevent, obstruct, disable or invalidate network security protection measures taken by the specialized network security force. The regulated fields include: Telecommunications services; storing and sharing data in cyberspace; providing national or international domain names to service users in Vietnam; ecommerce; online payment; payment intermediary; transport connection services through cyberspace; social networks and social media; online video games; services of providing, managing or operating other information in cyberspace in the form of messages, voice calls, video calls, e-mails, online chats. In case of force majeure and the compliance with the requirements of the law on cyber security of foreign enterprises cannot be done, the foreign enterprises need to notify A05 within 3 working days to check the authenticity. of force majeure. In this case, the enterprise has 30 working days to find a solution. In case the data collected, exploited, analyzed and processed by the enterprise is incomplete as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 26 of Decree 53, the enterprise shall coordinate with A05 to confirm and store the types of data. data is currently collected, exploited, analyzed, and processed. In case the enterprise collects, exploits, analyzes and processes additional data as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 26 of Decree 53, the enterprise is responsible for coordinating with A05 to supplement the data. on the list of data that must be stored in Vietnam	
"Accordingly, nearly 100 reporters and editors of press agencies in the South were recruited by reporters from the Department of Children (Ministry of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs) and the Department of Information Safety (Ministry of Public Security). TTTT) share some content on child protection; Regulations on the protection of children in the online environment; Key Points in the Law on Children; Law on Cybersecurity and some sanctions for cases of violations of regulations on publishing and broadcasting information content in the press. Mai Huong Giang, Deputy Director of the Press Department (Ministry of Information and Communications) gave an opening speech at the Conference Ms. Mai Huong Giang, Deputy Director of the Press Department (Ministry of Information and Communications) gave the opening speech at the conference Speaking at the opening of the conference, Deputy Director of the Press Department (Ministry of Information and Communications), Ms. Mai Huong Giang, said that the purpose of these training courses is to provide information and update on the current status of child protection in the environment. Internet environment and technology trends to protect and support children to interact in a healthy and creative way in the online environment. Thereby, promoting information and communication on protection and supporting children to interact in a healthy and creative online environment for the community; Focusing on propagandizing for parents and caregivers to raise awareness, support skills, and orient children to interact healthy and creative in the online environment; Actively prevent and detect acts of child abuse in the online environment. Ms. Mai Huong Giang believes that the press agency plays an important role in propaganda about children's issues in the online environment. For this task to be carried out effectively, the media also needs to be more equipped with knowledge and share ethical values ​​in the media to protect and support children to have healthy and creative interactions. on the internet… Overview of the Conference Conference scene At the conference, reporters and editors were also exchanged and shared expertise by Ms. Pham Thi Thuy - In charge of Children's Participation and Development Department - Department of Children (Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs). topic on ""The current status of child protection in the online environment and some current regulations on the protection of children in the online environment"". In addition, Ms. Dinh Thi Nhu Hoa - Head of Auditing Department of Vietnam Cyber ​​Emergency Response Center - Department of Information Security (Ministry of Information and Communications) also shared in-depth about technology trends to protect, support children to have healthy and creative interactions on the internet so that journalists can spread these messages, as well as raise awareness about information safety for children on the internet."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing their personal views in cyberspace. However, when participating in comments, or expressing personal views on cyberspace, people need to be careful.” Taking advantage to transmit malicious information Currently we have nearly 100 million people and The number of people using smartphones, using means, devices and using social networks is very high (over 70 million subscribers). The Center for Non-Traditional Security Management and Administration, Vietnam National University, Hanoi, cybercrime takes place in almost all fields from infringing upon national security, to deceiving property, slandering humiliating others, but the most dangerous nowadays are hostile forces, disgruntled people often use social networks to sabotage the Party and State with many different methods. According to him, taking advantage of cyberspace is the ability to spread quickly to every corner of social life and directly affect the subjects accessing information. g uses a lot of tricks, distorting, distorting facts, exaggerating facts, making malicious comments and installing intentions. Bad information, ambiguity, makes people accessing information do not know what is the truth and fluctuating, even losing faith in the Party and State. Security law does not allow people to fly to the top of the list. 1 Associate Professor, Dr. Do Canh Thin Not only uses social networks to carry out anti-Party and State activities at times when the country is acting. In the event of major political events such as the Party Congress, the election of deputies to the National Assembly and People's Councils at all levels, social networks are also a fertile ""land"" for scams to appropriate property, insult honor, slander others. Even selling banned goods through social networks takes place continuously and is increasingly sophisticated, such as pretending to be police officers, prosecutors, courts calling and texting threatening to ask victims to transfer money to the subject's account. ; impersonating a bank officer to send a text message asking the victim to provide an account number and OTP code, and then withdraw money; creating websites impersonating reputable agencies, organizations and companies to raise capital for investment in real estate projects; or a ""drawing cake"" business model to entice people who want to make quick money to transfer capital contributions; to impersonate facebook owners, zalo text messages to borrow money to appropriate. Facing the complicated development of cybercrime, the police force has closely coordinated with internet service providers and management agencies to carry out many synchronous solutions to fight and prevent. Thereby, hundreds of websites and thousands of network accounts with malicious and fraudulent content were detected, removed and handled; Hundreds of criminals of infringing upon national security, fraudulently appropriating property, human trafficking, and insulting other people's honor through cyberspace have also been severely handled before the law. Fighting this crime is still difficult. However, according to experts, that result is still unsatisfactory. Because the fight against this type of crime is very difficult. Professor, Dr. Nguyen Xuan Yem, former Director of the People's Police Academy, acknowledged that for ordinary criminals, it is very difficult to collect and establish evidence. But for new crimes that we call non-traditional crimes, whose evidence is mostly electronic evidence, the collection and establishment of evidence is even more difficult. The security law does not allow people to fly to the center of the image. 2 Professor, Dr. Nguyen Xuan Yem, former Director of the People's Police Academy. Photo: People's Public Security Newspaper The Law on Cybersecurity has been in effect for more than 3 years, but social network users still do not really understand all the provisions of the law as well as prohibited behaviors to be able to use the network. effective society, avoiding unfortunate violations. At the beginning of 2019 when the new Cybersecurity Law took effect, besides the overwhelming majority of people supporting it, there were still some conflicting opinions. There are even subjects with bad intentions and motives who have taken advantage of the situation to incite and advertise some of the contents specified in the law that will stifle freedom of democracy and freedom of speech. However, in fact, more than 3 years after the law took effect, the people's right to freedom of speech continued to be expanded. The cyber environment becomes more cultural and healthier. Lawyer Tran Tuan Anh, from the Hanoi Bar Association, said that the law does not prohibit people from expressing their views and sharing information on cyberspace, but there are limits to any freedom. Therefore, when sharing and commenting on information in cyberspace, people need to pay attention to the source and accuracy of the information as well as the purpose of providing security information that is not important to the public. 3 Lawyer Tran Tuan Anh “The Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from expressing and expressing their personal views in cyberspace. However, when participating in comments, or expressing personal views online, people need to consider whether the content"	
The Government recently issued Decree 53/2022 detailing a number of articles of the Cybersecurity Law. In it, five cases are required to remove illegal or untrue information in cyberspace. These cases include (1) when information in cyberspace is determined by a competent authority to contain content that infringes upon national security or propagates against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security or disrupting public order in accordance with law. (2) When there is a legal basis to determine that information on cyberspace contains humiliating or slanderous content; infringing upon the economic management order; fabricated, untruthful, causing confusion among the people, causing serious damage to socio-economic activities to the extent that information must be deleted. In addition, other information on cyberspace with the contents specified at Points c, dd, and e, Clause 1, Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity is also required to be deleted. Specifically, (1) distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against gender, and racist. (2) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality, and the health of the community. (3) Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. In addition, this Decree also clearly stipulates cases in which the measure of suspension, temporary suspension or request to stop operation of the information system or domain name revocation may be applied. These cases include (1) There are documents proving that the operation of the information system is in violation of the law on national security and network security, (2) the information system is being used for the purpose of hacking. national security, social order and safety. This Decree takes effect from October 1, 2022.	
Decree 53/2022/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity has just been issued by the Government, stating that from October 1, it is required to delete information when there is a legal basis to identify information. in cyberspace with humiliating and slanderous content; infringing upon the economic management order; fabricated, untruthful, causing confusion among the people, causing serious damage to socio-economic activities to the extent that information must be deleted. Article 19 of Decree 53/2022/ND-CP specifies the cases in which the application of measures to request the deletion of illegal or untruthful information in cyberspace includes: When information is received by a competent authority identified as infringing upon national security, propagating against the State; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; When there is a legal basis to determine that information has humiliating or slanderous content; infringing upon the economic management order; fabricating, falsely causing confusion among the people or causing serious damage to socio-economic activities to the extent that information must be deleted; fakenews140922.jpeg Illustration Other information with the contents specified at points c, dd, e, Clause 1, Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity include: Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, and sabotaging the great unity bloc whole nation, offending religion, discriminating on gender, racial discrimination; Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community; Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. In addition, according to Decree 53/2022/ND-CP, the computer network transmitting state secrets must be physically separated from the computer network connected to the Internet. Specifically, the computer network of state agencies, political organizations at central and local levels must clearly define important information and information network systems that need to give priority to ensuring network security; Clearly stipulating prohibitions and principles on management, use and assurance of network security, an internal computer network that stores and transmits state secrets must be physically separated from the computer network. electronic devices and means connected to the Internet, other cases must comply with the provisions of law on protection of state secrets; Management, professional and technical processes in operation, use and assurance of network security for data and technical infrastructure, in which basic requirements for information system safety must be met. ; Decree No. 53/2022/ND-CP also stipulates the order and procedures for taking measures to request the deletion of illegal or untruthful information in cyberspace infringing upon national security and order. , social safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control under the Ministry of Public Security, Heads of a competent agency of the Ministry of Information and Communications: Decide to apply measures to request the deletion of illegal information laws or false information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals as prescribed; Send a written request to enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, services on the Internet, value-added services in cyberspace, and information system owners to delete illegal or false information. truth in cyberspace, infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals as prescribed. Check the compliance with the measures taken by relevant entities as required. Exchange and share information on the implementation of this measure, except where the contents fall within the scope of state secrets or professional requirements of the Ministry of Public Security. The Cybersecurity Task Force of the Ministry of National Defense shall decide to apply the measure to request the deletion of illegal information or false information in cyberspace that infringes upon national security or military security against with military information systems.	
Specifically, according to this Decree, the data that must be stored in Vietnam include: data about personal information of service users in Vietnam; data created by service users in Vietnam (service user account name, service usage time, credit card information, email address, recent login and logout network address) first, the registered phone number associated with the account or data); data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam: friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts. Decree 53 also specifies the order and procedures for requesting data storage, and setting up branches or representative offices of foreign enterprises in Vietnam. According to this Decree, enterprises can decide on the form of data storage in Vietnam. The data retention period starts from the time the enterprise receives the data storage request to the end of the request, a minimum of 24 months. Representative office or branch in Vietnam starts from the time the enterprise receives the request to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam until the enterprise no longer operates in Vietnam or the specified service is no longer available. provided in Vietnam. System logs to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security specified at Point b, Clause 2, Article 26 of the Law on Cybersecurity shall be stored for at least 12 months. The Decree clearly stipulates that the Minister of Public Security shall issue a decision to request data storage, and to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. The Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control under the Ministry of Public Security shall notify, guide, monitor, supervise and urge enterprises to comply with data storage requirements, and set up branches or offices. representative in Vietnam; and at the same time notify relevant agencies to perform state management functions according to their competence. Within 12 months from the date the Minister of Public Security issues a decision, the enterprises specified at Point a, Clause 3, Article 26 of this Decree must complete data storage, set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. Vietnam.	
"NETWORK SECURITY PROTECTION, STATE CONFIDENTIAL PROTECTION The content of regulations on ensuring network safety and security is based on regulations on network security protection, state secret protection, standards and regulations. network information security technical standards and other relevant specialized technical standards. In addition, clearly stipulating prohibitions and principles on management, use and assurance of network security, internal computer networks that store and transmit state secrets must be physically separated from the network. computers, electronic devices and devices connected to the Internet, other cases must comply with the provisions of law on protection of state secrets. Heads of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels are responsible for promulgating plans to ensure cybersecurity of information systems under their management, ensuring synchronism and uniformity. centralized, sharing resources to optimize performance, avoid duplicate investment"". At the same time, the management, professional and technical processes in operation, use and assurance of network security for data and technical infrastructure must meet the basic requirements to ensure system safety. information system. In addition, the conditions for personnel working in network administration, system operation, network security assurance, information safety and related to the drafting, storage and transmission of state secrets through computer network system. Decree 53/2022/ND-CP also stipulates the responsibilities of each department, officer and employee in managing, using and ensuring network security and information safety; Sanctions to handle violations of regulations on ensuring network security. COMPLETE NETWORK SECURITY ASSURANCE PLAN The Decree also stipulates the development and completion of a plan to ensure network security for information systems of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels. Specifically, the heads of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels are responsible for promulgating a plan to ensure network security for the information system under their management, ensuring the synchronization, system most, centralized, sharing resources to optimize performance, avoid duplicate investment. A plan to ensure network security for an information system includes: Regulations on ensuring network security in the design and construction of an information system, meeting basic requirements such as management, technical and business requirements. service; network security assessment; network security testing and assessment; network security monitoring; preventing, responding to, and overcoming incidents and dangerous situations on network security; risk management; end of operation, exploitation, repair, liquidation, cancellation. PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES AND TROUBLESHOOTING The Decree stipulates plans to respond to and remedy cyber security incidents of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels. Specifically, the plan to respond to and overcome cybersecurity incidents includes: The plan to prevent and handle information with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order was posted on the information system. In addition, the plan to prevent and combat cyber espionage; protect information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life on the information system. In addition, the plan to prevent and combat acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety. Some plans to prevent and combat cyber attacks; Plans for prevention and combat of cyber-terrorism; Plans to prevent and handle dangerous situations about network security…"	
The Prime Minister emphasized that it is necessary to promptly grasp and effectively take advantage of opportunities brought by cyberspace for socio-economic development, while proactively preventing and being ready to respond to limit the impacts. negative aspects, overcome shortcomings and limitations, promote the positive aspects and achieved results, further strengthen the protection of network safety and security for national cyberspace, contribute to protecting the independence of the nation. , sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of the Fatherland, national and national interests, protecting people and businesses, ensuring security, social order and safety, maintaining a peaceful environment , stable to develop. The National Cybersecurity Steering Committee met for the first session, chaired by Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh On the afternoon of April 7, at the Government Headquarters, the National Cyber ​​Security and Safety Steering Committee (Steering Committee) meeting for the first session, chaired by Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, Head of the Steering Committee. Attending the meeting were General To Lam, Minister of Public Security, Deputy Head of the Standing Committee; Minister, Chairman of the Government Office Tran Van Son; Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung. Also attending were members of the Steering Committee who are leaders of the Government Office, the Party Central Committee's Office, the Central Propaganda Department, the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Information and Communications, and the Ministry of Planning and Investment. , the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... At the meeting, along with hearing the announcement of decisions on strengthening the Steering Committee, the delegates focused on discussing and giving opinions on the situation of national cybersecurity and safety. in the past time and forecast the situation in the coming time; give comments on the performance results in 2021 and work directions in 2022; a number of key, strategic and important issues of national cybersecurity and safety. Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh stated that ensuring network safety and security has been identified in the country's development orientation Concluding the meeting, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh stated that ensuring network safety and security has been approved by the Prime Minister. determined in the country's development orientation for the period 2021-2030 according to the Resolution of the 13th National Party Congress; is one of the important tasks in the Strategy to protect the Fatherland in the new situation, the Strategy to protect national security; especially in the context that our country is accelerating the process of digital transformation, building e-government, towards digital government, digital economy, digital society and digital citizens. In the process of international integration, the fourth industrial revolution has a profound impact on all aspects of socio-economic life in general and the field of national cybersecurity and safety. Over the past time, the situation of cyber safety and security has been complicated in the global cyberspace, difficult to control, difficult to predict, and has increasingly profound impacts on all aspects of socio-economic life, sovereignty and national security. , the national security of the country and the psychology and perception of the people. Our Party and State have always paid close attention to and directed closely to the protection of network safety and security, and have promulgated many guidelines and policies of the Party and legal documents of the State, such as Decree No. Decision No. 29 dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on the Strategy to protect the Fatherland in cyberspace, Resolution No. 30 of July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on the National Cybersecurity Strategy, Law on Security Cybersecurity in 2015, Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, Resolution No. 22/NQ-CP dated October 18, 2019 on the Government's action plan to implement Resolution 30 of the Politburo... Prime Minister commended the members of the Steering Committee, the Office, the sub-committees of the Steering Committee, the forces to ensure network safety and security in the past time for closely following the situation, making efforts to perform well their tasks and functions. , assigned powers, contributing to the protection of national sovereignty in cyberspace, successfully defending the XIII Congress of the Party, elections to the National Assembly and People's Councils at all levels for the term 2021-2025, ensuring a safe environment, healthy for the people and businesses in cyberspace. According to the report of the International Telecommunication Union published in 2021, Vietnam ranks 25th out of 194 countries and territories, 7th in the Asia-Pacific region, 4th in ASEAN in terms of safety and security. network. However, besides that, there are issues that need further attention and efforts, such as raising awareness about network safety and security; investment in ensuring network safety and security has not been commensurate with assigned tasks; the coordination between agencies is still limited, international cooperation has not brought into full play its positive effect; the role of the focal point in the implementation of interdisciplinary tasks still has problems; the implementation of tasks by a number of ministries, branches and localities is sometimes not timely; the state of revealing or leaking State secrets; Training and professional improvement for human resources have not been paid due attention… The new situation and context set forth urgent and timely requirements for the protection of network safety and security; quickly and effectively adapt to new developments; both actively and proactively integrating and participating in major trends, while taking measures to ensure network safety and security; while enhancing publicity, transparency, and protecting personal data. The Prime Minister emphasized that it is necessary to timely grasp and make effective use ofopportunities brought by cyberspace for socio-economic development, and at the same time, proactively prevent and be ready to respond to limit negative impacts, overcome shortcomings, limit and promote the advantages of cyberspace. actively and successfully achieved results, further strengthening the protection of cyber safety and security for the national cyberspace, contributing to protecting the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of the Fatherland. national interests, protect people and businesses, ensure security, social order and safety, and maintain a peaceful and stable environment for development. Members of the Steering Committee, the Ministry of Public Security as the standing body of the Steering Committee, the Office of the National Cybersecurity and Safety Steering Committee, the Cybersecurity and Safety Sub-Committee, relevant ministries and branches The agency urgently implements measures to protect network safety and security, especially when the world political situation in the coming time is complicated and the country's digital transformation is taking place strongly; request to further strengthen the role of the Steering Committee, the Office of the Steering Committee, and the sub-committees, to perform a number of urgent tasks that need to be done immediately to solve the requirements posed in the current situation. The Prime Minister stated that it is necessary to ensure the comprehensive leadership of the Party, the strict management of the State, the involvement of the Party Committee and the government in this work. Protecting network safety and security is the focus of the digital transformation process, an important, regular, continuous, urgent and long-term task, a common responsibility of the whole political system and of the government. the entire population, attracting resources, actively integrating into the world; Therefore, it is necessary to have a centralized, transparent, synchronous, unified leadership and direction, and a clear assignment of responsibilities among agencies. The Prime Minister requested to thoroughly understand, organize the implementation of seriously and effectively the guidelines of the Party, policies and laws of the State on network safety and security. Must be fully, deeply and comprehensively aware of cyber safety and security to agree on awareness and action, this is a global issue, so a global approach is needed, mobilizing international cooperation, promote multilateralism, this is an issue affecting the entire people, so it is necessary to have a people-wide approach, the people must be the center and the subject to participate in this work. Must firmly grasp the situation, improve forecasting ability, adjust and supplement tasks, timely and appropriate solutions. Review, build and perfect institutions on network safety and security. To invest more in leadership, direction, resource allocation and finance, considering investment in cybersecurity as an investment for development; regular technology upgrades; focus on training and improving the quality of human resources; develop mechanisms and policies to prioritize resources. The Prime Minister emphasized the active duty. proactively protect national sovereignty in cyberspace, promote international integration and cooperation in the field of cyber safety and security in the spirit of being a friend, reliable partner and responsible member of the community. internationally, contributing to peace, cooperation and development in the region and in the world. Closely coordinate with forces, agencies in the political system, at all levels and sectors, to mobilize the synergy of people and businesses. Promote public-private cooperation, build a people's posture and people's security posture in cyberspace. Promote propaganda on network safety and security. Strengthen inspection and supervision of implementation. Research on the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Association... The National Cybersecurity Steering Committee is an interdisciplinary organization to advise and organize the implementation of strategic, comprehensive, and comprehensive issues. play a central role, directing and directing ministries, branches and localities, creating a common synergy, organizing the implementation methodically and synchronously, achieving the highest efficiency in safety protection, network security.	
Accordingly, the Law on Cybersecurity has reserved Article 8 on the acts that service users are strictly prohibited from performing in cyberspace. 1. Using cyberspace to commit the following acts: - Acts specified in Clause 1, Article 18 of this Law regarding cyberattacks or related to cyberattacks; - Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; - Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and race; - False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon rights and interests. the law of other organizations and individuals; - Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health; - Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes; Illustration 2. Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; causing incidents, attacks, infiltration, hijacking, falsification, interruption, disruption, paralysis or destruction of information systems important to national security; 3. Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means; 4. Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security protection force; illegally attacking or disabling network security protection measures; 5. Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of organizations or individuals, or to profiteering; 6. Other acts of violating the provisions of this Law. Those who commit acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively sanctioned or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law.	
The Law consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles that regulate activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace; responsibilities of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals. Before voting to approve the entire draft law, the National Assembly voted to approve Article 10 - Important information system for national security and Article 26 - Assurance of information in cyberspace. For Article 10, there were 423 delegates in favor (86.86%), 20 delegates disagreeing (4.11%), 19 delegates did not vote (3.08%). As for Article 26, there were 398 delegates in favor (81.72%), 41 delegates disagreeing (8.42%) and 24 deputies did not vote (4.93%). Voting rate on the project of Law on Cybersecurity Related to regulations on information security in cyberspace, Law on requirements for domestic and foreign enterprises when providing services on telecommunications networks, internet and other services increase in cyberspace in Vietnam is responsible for verifying information when users register for digital accounts; secure information and user accounts; provide user information to the specialized cyber security force under the Ministry of Public Security upon written request to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security. Domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data on personal information data on the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the Government. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up branches or representative offices in Vietnam. 8 Important information system for national security The law stipulates that an important information system for national security is an information system when it is damaged, infiltrated, hijacked, falsified or disrupted. , shutdown, paralysis, attack or sabotage will seriously compromise network security. National Assembly deputies press the button to vote on the bill. Accordingly, 8 information systems are identified in this category, including: Military, security, diplomatic, and cipher information systems; Information system that stores and processes information belonging to state secrets; An information system in service of storing and preserving artifacts and documents of particularly important value; An information system serving the preservation of materials and substances especially dangerous to humans and the ecological environment; An information system serving the preservation, manufacture and management of other particularly important facilities related to national security; An important information system serving the activities of central agencies and organizations; The national information system in the fields of energy, finance, banking, telecommunications, transportation, natural resources and environment, chemicals, healthcare, culture and press; Automated control and monitoring systems at important projects related to national security, important national security goals. The Law also assigns the Prime Minister to promulgate and amend and supplement the List of important information systems for national security. “Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively sanctioned or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law” - Article 9 of the Law on Cybersecurity clearly states.	
After being approved by 87% of National Assembly deputies on June 12, 2018, from today (January 1, 2019), the Law on Cybersecurity officially took effect. The scope of regulation of the Cybersecurity Law is the provisions on activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace, along with the responsibilities of agencies, organizations, relevant individuals. {keywords} The Law on Cybersecurity officially took effect in Vietnam from January 1, 2019. With 7 chapters and 43 articles, the Law on Cybersecurity will specifically stipulate the protection of network security for information systems important for national security; measures to prevent and handle acts of infringing upon network security; network security protection activities; forces directly involved in the protection of network security; responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals and the implementation provisions of the Cybersecurity Law. In general, when the Law on Cybersecurity comes into force, it will create equality between domestic and foreign businesses when providing services on the Internet.​ When fully complying with the same regulations as domestic enterprises. , foreign enterprises can completely provide normal services. Therefore, when the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect, it will not be possible for Google or Facebook to be banned in Vietnam as many people have feared. Prohibited acts when the Cybersecurity Law takes effect The Cybersecurity Law will further tighten activities in the network environment. Accordingly, there will be more laws prohibiting acts that cause cybersecurity. This requires each Internet user to understand his or her rights and obligations when participating in activities in the cyberspace. {keywords} The Law on Cybersecurity was approved by 87% of National Assembly deputies on June 12, 2018. The following are prohibited acts when the Law on Cybersecurity comes into effect: 1. Using cyberspace to perform acts: a) Propaganda against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. b) Organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. c) Distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, sabotaging the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism. d) False information causes confusion among the people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, causes difficulties for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringes upon the rights and interests of the public. legitimate interests of other organizations and individuals. dd) Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and community health. e) Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. 2. Performing cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercrime; causing incidents, attacks, intrusions, hijacking, falsifying, interrupting, stalling, crippling or destroying information systems important to national security. 3. Producing, putting into use tools, means, software or obstructing or disrupting the operation of computer networks or telecommunications networks; spreading informatics programs that harm the operation of computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means; illegally infiltrate other people's computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means. 4. Opposing or obstructing the operation of the network security protection force; illegally attacking or disabling the network security protection measures. 5. Taking advantage of or abusing cybersecurity protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, lawful rights and interests of organizations or individuals, or to profiteering. In addition to the above contents, the Law on Cybersecurity also prohibits other acts that violate the provisions of this Law	
Is the Cybersecurity Law related to the Penal Code or other legal documents? Is there any control, disclosure of users' personal information and banning Internet users from accessing social networking sites such as Facebook, Google, Youtube...? The above questions of the people were answered by the Ministry of Public Security and published on the portal of this ministry. According to the Ministry of Public Security, our country is dealing with tens of thousands of large-scale and high-intensity cyber attacks each year, directly threatening national security and social order and safety, causing serious damage to the country. heavy economic loss. Cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are also used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and illegal gatherings to disrupt security and order. inciting riots, terrorism, overthrowing the people's administration, infringing upon national sovereignty, interests and security. According to this ministry, the state of posting information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale; The use of cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety is increasing and complicated, such as gambling, fraud, stealing bank accounts, money laundering, prostitution, drugs, etc. Security said that the national capacity and potential in cybersecurity has not yet had an appropriate and timely adjustment policy; The dependence on information technology equipment of foreign origin ... puts urgent requirements on building and forming a network security industry. In addition, the state management of information security and cyber security at ministries, branches, branches and localities still has shortcomings, limitations and lack of synchronization due to the lack of legal documents. no law governs this issue until the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary to meet the urgent requirements of network security protection in the current situation. According to the Ministry of Public Security, when promulgated, the Law on Cybersecurity has high consistency with the current legal system, because cyberspace has covered all areas of social life. Does the Cybersecurity Law directly or indirectly reflect some contents according to 29 articles of the Penal Code; related to the provisions on the protection of human rights in the Constitution, the Penal Code, the Civil Code and other relevant documents; and closely related to the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and its guiding documents. The Ministry of Public Security also affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity was enacted without control and disclosed citizens' information. Because, the law stipulates that only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the new Law on Cybersecurity requires businesses to provide personal information related to law violations. there. The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by competent authorities. approve. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations. The relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals must protect business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled. If the network security force is to abuse or disclose personal information of users, it will be handled in accordance with the law. In addition, the Ministry of Public Security also said that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google and Youtube. Vietnamese people are still free to access these websites or any other social networking sites at home and abroad. In contrast, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates network security protection measures for people when participating in activities on social networking sites such as Facebook, Google... However, who uses social networks on or any other social network to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law.	
The Ministry of Public Security affirms that the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated without control and information disclosure, does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google or Youtube Inciting terrorism and riots in cyberspace According to the Ministry of Public Security, Vietnam are dealing with tens of thousands of large-scale, high-intensity cyber attacks each year, directly threatening national security and social order and safety, causing heavy economic losses. Cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are also used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and illegal gatherings to disrupt security and order. inciting riots, terrorism, overthrowing the people's administration, infringing upon national sovereignty, interests and security. Posting of information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences on human life and morale; activities using cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety are increasing and complex, such as gambling, fraud, stealing bank accounts, money laundering, prostitution, drugs... Capacity, national potential in cyber security has not yet had appropriate and timely adjustment policies; The dependence on information technology equipment of foreign origin ... puts urgent requirements on building and forming a network security industry. In addition, the state management of information security and cyber security in ministries, departments, branches and localities still has shortcomings, limitations and lack of synchronization due to the lack of legal documents. no law governs this issue until the Law on Cybersecurity is promulgated. Therefore, the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary to meet the urgent requirements of network security protection in the current situation. Uncontrolled, leaked information The Ministry of Public Security affirmed that the Law on Cybersecurity was enacted without control and disclosed citizens' information. Specifically, the law stipulates that only when serving the investigation and handling of violations of the law on network security, the Law on Cybersecurity requires enterprises to provide personal information related to illegal acts. that law. The specialized network security force is only allowed to access personal information of users with illegal activities, with strict order and procedures (in writing), approved by competent authorities. approve. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and related documents clearly stipulate the management and use of information provided to serve the investigation and handling of law violations. The relevant authorities, businesses and organizations and individuals must protect business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. Acts such as appropriating, trading, seizing, intentionally disclosing, deleting, damaging, losing, altering, or putting on cyberspace information belonging to business secrets, personal secrets or secrets family secrets and private life of others without the user's permission or in contravention of the law will be handled. In addition, the network security protection force, if it abuses or discloses users' personal information, will be handled in accordance with the law. Not banning people from using Facebook The Ministry of Public Security also said that the Law on Cybersecurity does not prohibit people from accessing Facebook, Google, and Youtube. Vietnamese people are still free to access these websites or any other social networking sites at home and abroad. In contrast, the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates network security protection measures for people when participating in activities on social networking sites such as Facebook, Google... However, who uses social networks on or any other social network to commit illegal acts will be strictly handled in accordance with the law. In addition, when promulgated, the Law on Cybersecurity has high consistency with the current legal system of Vietnam, because cyberspace has covered all areas of social life. Does the Cybersecurity Law directly or indirectly reflect some contents according to 29 articles of the Penal Code; related to the provisions on the protection of human rights in the Constitution, the Penal Code, the Civil Code and other relevant documents; and closely related to the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations and its guiding documents.	
"Circular 46/2020/TT-BGDDT is applicable to high schools, high schools with many levels of education, including high school level and related organizations and individuals. A new point of the circular compared to the previous learning content is to make the Cybersecurity Law one of the learning contents of the QP-AN Education subject. * Necessary subjects This new regulation of learning content has received the consensus of many students' parents. Because in recent years, the strong development of social networks (MXH) has impacted the lives of students, even in many cases with negative impacts, causing severe consequences. Many parents expect that when incorporating the Cybersecurity Law into the content of the QP-AN Education subject, it will help supplement legal knowledge as well as necessary skills for students to participate in the online environment in a positive way. useful. Understanding the content of the circular, Mr. Ha Quang Suong (living in Trang Dai Ward, Bien Hoa City) said that he appreciated the addition of the content of the Cybersecurity Law into the curriculum. Through this course, students will learn some basic concepts about network, network security, privacy of personal information in cyber environment; basic contents of the Law on Cybersecurity; secure personal information, be wary of intrusive tricks, spread malicious code, fake information on the internet… “This is really useful knowledge for students, because nowadays students use the internet every day. The more widespread, if not enough information, knowledge will not protect themselves, easy to be seduced, fall into the path of crime ""- Mr. Suong said. Commenting on the content of the curriculum, Ms. Pham Thi Tuyet Lan (living in TT.Dau Giay, Thong Nhat District), whose son is studying in grade 10, said that this is a necessary learning content. Besides the positive side, in recent years the negative side of social media has caused many negative effects with severe consequences. There have been cases where students have accidentally become victims of online scams, sexual abuse, etc., so it is essential to equip students with the knowledge to use social media in a useful way. * More lessons on skills In support of the inclusion of the Cybersecurity Law in the content of QP-AN Education, some parents also suggested that schools should organize more extracurricular classes to educate students skills in using the internet and social media. “In today's digital society, online learning has become quite popular and necessary. The issue of online security is the same as real-life security, you must know how to protect yourself, know how to classify. Students who have good classification skills will be able to limit risks and avoid them. Therefore, in my opinion, schools should pay more attention, organize extra-curricular activities, invite experts to talk, and guide them in skills on using the internet and social media. Thi Ngoc Hien (living in Thong Nhat Ward, Bien Hoa City) recommended. And Ms. Tran Kim Yen (living in Hoa Binh Ward, Bien Hoa City) shared that students are the age to quickly access information technology, while most do not have information verification skills and application experience. deal with bad news, toxic. From there, it can be adversely affected, affecting the formation of the personality and lifestyle of young people, even in many cases, they themselves inadvertently abet fake news to spread. “If you are equipped with the skills to identify fake news and look up accurate information from reliable and official information channels, it will make a positive contribution to raising awareness, changing behavior and habits. young people's habits when receiving information, especially in the social media environment,"" said Ms. Yen."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the XIV National Assembly at its 5th session with a high approval rate (86.86%). On June 28, the President announced the Law on Cybersecurity. The law, consisting of 7 chapters and 43 articles, will take effect from January 1, 2019. The Law on Cybersecurity was passed at the 5th Session of the XIV National Assembly with a high approval rate (86.86%). The promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity is very necessary, because according to the Cybersecurity Department (Ministry of Public Security), every year our country is dealing with tens of thousands of large-scale, high-intensity cyber attacks, threatening directly threaten national security and social order and safety, causing heavy economic damage. The latest data of the Cybersecurity Department shows that, in the first 6 months of this year alone, 2,769 national domain name web pages/portals were detected, of which 35 are under management. The management of Party and State agencies was attacked, changed the interface, hijacked, and edited the content. In addition, according to the Cybersecurity Department, cyberspace and some types of services and applications in cyberspace are being used by hostile and reactionary forces to spread information calling for protests and gatherings. Illegal exercises disrupt security and order, incite riots, terrorism, overthrow the people's administration, infringe upon sovereignty, interests and national security. The Cybersecurity Department commented: Posting information that distorts the guidelines and guidelines of the Party and State, undermines the great national unity bloc, and insults religion; The wave of spreading false information, humiliating and slandering organizations and individuals... is rampant in cyberspace without effective management measures, leading to many unfortunate consequences in terms of human life and morals. ; the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals are seriously infringed. The activities of using cyberspace to infringe on social order and safety are increasing and complicated, such as: gambling, fraud, stealing bank accounts, money laundering, prostitution, drugs... Meanwhile , the national capacity and potential in cyber security has not yet had appropriate and timely adjustment policies; The dependence on information technology equipment of foreign origin ... puts urgent requirements on building and forming a network security industry. The state management of information security and cyber security at ministries, agencies, branches and localities still has shortcomings, limitations, lack of synchronization and consistency due to the lack of previous normative documents. What law governs this matter? Therefore, according to the Cybersecurity Department, the promulgation of the Cybersecurity Law will be an important legal basis, helping the task force to handle risks and challenges from cyberspace in a timely and effective manner. The Law on Cybersecurity clearly stipulates that, “cybersecurity is the assurance that operations in cyberspace do not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations, individual"". The Law also stipulates principles of network security protection such as: Complying with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals; Closely combine the task of protecting network security and protecting information systems important to national security with the task of socio-economic development, ensuring human and citizen rights, creating favorable conditions for for organizations and individuals operating in cyberspace. In addition, proactively prevent, detect, block, fight and fail all activities using cyberspace to infringe upon national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals; ready to prevent threats to network security... Any violations of the law on network security must be handled promptly and strictly."	
"Law on Cybersecurity to ensure a safe cyberspace environment for people The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly (Session XIV) at its 5th session, June 12, 2018, and took effect from January 1, 2018. January 1, 2019 is an urgent requirement to ensure a safe environment against constant threats in cyberspace. Cyberspace is developing strongly, creating many benefits but also bringing great challenges to countries and peoples around the world. Vietnam is always in the group of countries with the most cyberattacks in the world, with fast-growing crimes, information disturbance in cyberspace, disinformation, libel, slander, and human insults. products, violations of fine customs and traditions are rampant, the national cyber infrastructure still has many holes and weaknesses. Individuals entitled to benefits from the Law on Cybersecurity Under the Cybersecurity Law, individuals are protected when participating in activities in cyberspace against bad, toxic information that infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity. , cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism or other acts that affect their legitimate rights and interests. {keywords} Law on Cybersecurity ensures a safe cyberspace environment for people With the scope of regulation of the Law on Cybersecurity, organizations and individuals operating in a national cyber environment will be ensure safety, healthier than before, minimize factors and risks of infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals such as: personal information theft, fraud, appropriation property, slander, humiliate, attack libel, limit malicious code, gradually eliminate acts of gambling, betting, propaganda of depraved cultural products inciting violence, prostitution and other acts violate other laws in cyberspace; strictly protect personal data in cyberspace; children are protected in cyberspace; ensure an equal business environment between domestic enterprises and foreign enterprises in terms of management, compatibility with the provisions of law and responsibilities and obligations to be performed. To participate in and inherit the State's cybersecurity policies such as: research and development of network security; improve self-control capacity in network security; network security education and training. To be given tools to protect their interests: Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates the prevention and handling of illegal information in cyberspace, clearly stipulating the responsibilities of agencies and organizations, individuals in detecting, preventing and removing information that violates the law, as well as requesting the specialized network security force to take measures to protect network security to remove illegal information. the law. This means that people have clearer tools to protect themselves when bad information infringes upon their legitimate rights and interests. Article 17 of the Cybersecurity Law will help protect people against cyber espionage activities, protect personal secrets, family secrets and private life in cyberspace. Article 18, Cybersecurity Law helps protect people from cybercriminal activities, such as appropriating property, stealing credit card information, bank accounts Article 19, Cybersecurity Law gives tools to protect people from cybercrime protect people from cyberattacks, such as spreading malicious code, denial of service attacks Article 26, Law on Cybersecurity ""reinforces"" tools to protect people from malicious information by requesting requires domestic and foreign enterprises, when providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam, have the responsibility to eliminate sources of disseminating bad information through not or stop providing services to these subjects. At the same time, it helps to protect people's personal information, personal secrets, and avoid being collected and abused (in case personal data of Facebook users is abused for political activities). By requiring some foreign businesses to set up branches and representative offices, that is, having a legal entity in Vietnam will help people have the right to manage, use and complain about their data. Children are specially protected in cyberspace according to the provisions of Article 29 of the Law on Cybersecurity. To be protected by the specialized force for cybersecurity protection when participating in activities in cyberspace, when the task force is empowered to take necessary cybersecurity protection measures (Article 5), helping the force This will work more effectively and efficiently, which means that it will protect national security, social order and safety, and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. The rights of individuals will be guaranteed when all people are equal before the law. All illegal acts in cyberspace will be handled in accordance with the law. Community responsibility for cybersecurity will be enhanced, when agencies, organizations and enterprises in information system management and service provision in cyberspace are identified with specific responsibilities, contributing to important for the formation of a secure cyberspacewhole, healthy. Protecting people from bad and malicious information Currently, user data in Vietnam online has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage. Even the data has been used for political conspiracies or in violation of the law. Therefore, in order to strictly manage and protect Vietnam's data online, the Law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services in cyberspace have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing, processing personal data, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam. {keywords} The Law on Cybersecurity reinforces more tools to protect people from malicious information. Foreign enterprises specified in this Clause must set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. Experts said that this regulation is in line with domestic law and international practices, not contrary to treaties to which Vietnam is a signatory, and does not hinder business operations. For human rights, citizens' rights and interests, the internet and social networks are a tool that bad guys can use to spread false information for malicious purposes such as: fraud to appropriate property. ; mental terrorism, threatening to post private information online, disrupting the lives of many families, even many people have to seek death. When the Cybersecurity Law and decrees and sub-law documents are implemented, the legal basis and sanctions for cyber acts in Vietnam will be improved. At that time, users and service providers will also be more responsible for the content and services they provide and share on cyberspace in Vietnam."	
In particular, on the formulation and completion of regulations on the use of computer networks by state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels, the Decree requires state agencies, central political organizations and localities must develop regulations on the use, management and security of internal computer networks and computer networks connected to the Internet managed by their agencies or organizations. The content of regulations on ensuring network safety and security is based on regulations on cybersecurity protection, protection of state secrets, network information security standards and technical regulations and standards. other relevant technical expertise. Determining the information network system The Decree stipulating the use and ensuring the security of computer networks of state agencies and political organizations at central and local levels must include: Important information should be prioritized to ensure network security. Clearly stipulating prohibitions and principles on management, use and assurance of network security, an internal computer network that stores and transmits state secrets must be physically separated from the computer network. electronic devices and means connected to the Internet, other cases must comply with the provisions of law on protection of state secrets. Management, professional and technical processes in operation, use and assurance of network security for data and technical infrastructure, in which basic requirements for information system safety must be met. . Conditions for personnel in charge of network administration, system operation, assurance of network security and information safety, and related to the drafting, storage and transmission of state secrets through computer networks count. Clearly define the responsibilities of each department, officer and employee in the management, use, and assurance of network security and information safety. Sanctions to handle violations of regulations on ensuring network security. Completing the plan to ensure network security The Decree also stipulates the development and completion of the plan to ensure network security for the information systems of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels. Specifically, the heads of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels are responsible for promulgating a plan to ensure network security for the information system under their management, ensuring the synchronization, system most, centralized, sharing resources to optimize performance, avoid duplicate investment. A plan to ensure network security for an information system includes: Regulations on ensuring network security in the design and construction of an information system, meeting basic requirements such as management, technical and business requirements. service; network security assessment; network security testing and assessment; network security monitoring; preventing, responding to, and overcoming incidents and dangerous situations on network security; risk management; end of operation, exploitation, repair, liquidation, cancellation. Plans for responding to and overcoming cyber security incidents The Decree prescribes plans for responding to and overcoming cyber security incidents of state agencies and political organizations at the central and local levels. Specifically, the plan to respond to and overcome cybersecurity incidents includes: The plan to prevent and handle information with propaganda content against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; humiliate, slander; infringing upon the economic management order was posted on the information system. Plans for prevention and combat of cyber espionage; protect information belonging to state secrets, work secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets and private life on the information system. A plan to prevent and combat acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on national security, social order and safety. Plans to prevent and combat cyber attacks. Plans to prevent and combat cyber-terrorism. Plans for prevention and handling of dangerous cyber security situations	
A fine ranging from VND 80,000,000 to VND 100,000,000 shall be imposed for one of the following acts: Supporting the use of cyberspace for the purpose of supporting, sponsoring or mobilizing others to support or sponsor the organization. terrorist organizations and individuals. Delaying, obstructing, failing to take measures at the request of functional forces in preventing and combating cyber-terrorism… Draft Decree The full text of the draft Decree is posted on the Ministry of Public Security's web portal to collect comments within 2 months from the date of posting. Penalized subjects are Vietnamese organizations and individuals and foreign organizations and individuals that commit administrative violations specified in this Decree. The draft Decree includes 4 chapters and 51 articles, providing for administrative violations, sanctioning forms, sanctioning levels, remedial measures, authority to make minutes and sanctioning competence for violations. administrative violations in the field of network security. In addition, the statute of limitations for sanctioning administrative violations in the field of cyber security is 1 year, except for cases of administrative violations related to production, trading, import, supply, exploitation and export of products and services. In case of cyber security, the statute of limitations for sanctioning administrative violations is 2 years. Moreover, based on the nature and seriousness of violations, organizations and individuals committing administrative violations will also be subject to one or more additional sanctions such as: Deprivation of the right to use licenses or certificates , practicing certificates with a definite term or suspending operations for a definite time; confiscate material evidences, means and documents of administrative violations; prohibited from practicing or doing work related to violations in the field of cybersecurity. In addition to the remedial measures specified at Points d and i, Clause 1, Article 28 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations, violators shall also be subject to remedial measures specified in this Decree. This applies as: Forced removal of programs and software; forcibly recall or destroy products and equipment, stop providing services that are harmful to network security; or unlicensed or unlicensed or improperly performed under license. Or force the implementation of remedial measures on network security. Forced deletion of data that has been illegally appropriated, traded or exchanged; forcible deletion or correction of information that violates the law on network security; withdraw subscriber numbers, prefixes and telecommunications number warehouses; Internet resources, domain name, Internet address (IP), network number (ASN); management code, service provision number, etc. At the same time, return illegal profits obtained from performing administrative violations specified in Article 37 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations applicable to administrative violations. violators gain illegal profits... Notably, the draft stipulates a fine of between VND 40,000,000 and 60,000,000 for one of the following acts: making and spreading false information truth, causing confusion among the people, affecting the lawful rights and interests of other organizations and individuals; creating and disseminating information with content that destroys the nation's fine customs and traditions, social ethics, and the health of the community; Creating and spreading information with contents inciting, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes… A fine ranging from VND 60,000,000 to VND 80,000,000 shall be imposed for the following acts: Using cyberspace to incite terrorist activities or threaten terrorism. Intentionally sharing, commenting to promote propaganda information of terrorist organizations and individuals in cyberspace. A fine ranging from VND 80,000,000 to VND 100,000,000 shall be imposed for one of the following acts: Supporting the use of cyberspace for the purpose of supporting, sponsoring or mobilizing others to support or sponsor the organization. terrorist organizations and individuals. Delaying, obstructing, failing to take measures at the request of functional forces in preventing and combating cyber-terrorism... Other administrative violations related to cyber security are not specified in the Decree This Decree shall apply the provisions of other Decrees of the Government on sanctioning of administrative violations in the relevant field of state management.	
"Many activities have been carried out by the Ministry of Public Security to increase awareness, understanding and sense of respect and observance of the Law on Cybersecurity among officers and soldiers of the People's Public Security. The Ministry of Public Security has successfully organized a conference to review the competition to learn about the Law on Cybersecurity in the People's Public Security Forces. After a year of implementation, the competition to learn about the Law on Cybersecurity has become an exciting and practical political activity, enthusiastically participated by a large number of officers and soldiers in the People's Public Security force. . According to the Organizing Committee, the contests sent to the participants were of relatively high quality, meeting the requirements in both content and form. Many exams are of excellent quality, demonstrating the level, knowledge and enthusiasm of the participating teams. {keywords} Competition to learn the Law on Cybersecurity in the People's Public Security force. Photo: Trong Dat A total of 363 best entries out of a total of 123,267 entries entered the final round. Through 2 rounds of judging, the Organizing Committee decided to award 1 special prize, 1 first prize, 10 second prizes, 20 third prizes, 50 consolation prizes and 7 sub prizes to 42 teams and 47 individuals. The conference also held an exhibition of excellent contests to honor the winning teams and individuals. According to Major General Nguyen Minh Chinh - Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (A05 - Ministry of Public Security), the Law on Cybersecurity, when implemented, has contributed to ensuring security. national security, social order and safety and the rights and interests of individuals, organizations and enterprises in cyberspace. “The competition to learn about the Cybersecurity Law has contributed to helping the People's Public Security force understand the basic contents of the Cybersecurity Law and how to bring it to life. Through that, each citizen will gain a deeper awareness of their role and meaning in fighting against illegal acts in cyberspace,"" said Major General Nguyen Minh Chinh. {keywords} Major General Nguyen Minh Chinh - Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (A05 - Ministry of Public Security). Photo: Trong Dat Speaking at the conference, Senior Lieutenant General Bui Van Nam - Deputy Minister of Public Security asked the police of units and localities to continue to organize research and study the Law on Cybersecurity so that officers and soldiers can have a deep understanding of the law. more color. This helps to create a qualitative change in the prevention and fight against activities using cyberspace to infringe upon national security and social order and safety. At the conference, leaders of the Ministry of Public Security also requested relevant units to actively advise leaders at all levels to implement cybersecurity protection in their localities and areas in charge in accordance with the Law. Network security. In the coming time, the Ministry of Public Security will urgently complete and advise the Government to issue a Decree guiding the implementation of a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity and the Prime Minister's Decision promulgating a list of information systems. important national security information. For schools, leaders of the Ministry of Public Security assign these units the task to review, amend, supplement and compile textbooks, research and teaching materials in accordance with the Law on Cybersecurity. and law enforcement documents."	
"Nguyen Phuong Hang's offensive livestream shows that many people have misconceptions about the right to freedom of speech and abuse of this right to infringe on the rights of individuals and organizations. To clarify where the line is between the right to freedom of speech and abusing this right to violate the law, we had an interview with Ms. Bach Thi Nha Nam, a law master, a lecturer at the Faculty of Law, University of Economics. - Law, Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City. . Reporter: Madam, how is freedom of speech protected by law (even in cyberspace)? From the case of Ms. Phuong Hang: Need more regulations for social networks Photo 1 Master Bach Thi Nha Nam, lecturer at Law Faculty, University of Economics and Law, Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City. + MSc Bach Thi Nha Nam: Freedom of speech and expression is one of the basic human rights and was born very early in human history. In Vietnam, Article 25 of the 2013 Constitution stipulates the right to freedom of speech: “Citizens have the right to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, access to information, meetings, associations, and demonstrations. The exercise of these rights is prescribed by law”. However, in addition to the provision on the right to freedom of expression, the law also guarantees “… the inviolability of private life, personal secrets and family secrets; have the right to protect their honor, reputation and dignity” (Article 21 of the 2013 Constitution). Thus, the right to freedom of expression is a human right in three aspects: Freedom to seek information, freedom to receive information and freedom to impart information and opinions to all areas of life. social life. In the context of the Internet - emerging as a social network - rapidly developing in Vietnam, individuals using social networks or cyberspace in general must comply with the general provisions of the Cybersecurity Law. In Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity, it is prohibited to act as: False information; vandalizing the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality, etc. Thus, all acts of freedom of speech that violate the prohibition of the law are not protected by law and must be held responsible before the law. the law of their conduct. In short, everyone has the right to freedom of speech and discussion on issues in society but must ensure that they do not infringe on other rights protected by law; does not violate the prohibition prescribed in legal documents such as the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Cyberinformation Security, the Penal Code 2015 and a number of other legal documents. . Where is the line between freedom of speech and taking advantage of this right to infringe upon the interests of individuals and organizations? + Limits of free speech are often built on the ""harm principle"" and the ""offensive principle"". Simply put, no one is free to speak freely to defame, slander, slander, slander, slander, hate speech, spread disinformation intended to cause panic, speak inciting violence, or offend reputations. honor, dignity and prestige of other agencies, organizations and individuals in society. With cases of using social networks to livestream, indiscriminately exposing, insulting the honor and dignity of organizations and individuals without any grounds are acts of violating the provisions of law on cyberspace. . These acts have the manifestation of abusing freedom of expression, insulting the honor and dignity of organizations and individuals and must be punished by legal tools. . To prevent dirty livestreams on social networks, what do you think we need to do? + As the Internet and social networks develop at a rapid pace, everyone can be offended, attacked on social networks with little chance to reclaim honor and justice. From Ms. Phuong Hang's case: Need more regulations for social networks Photo 2 Police force blocked the entrance to Mrs. Nguyen Phuong Hang's house on Nguyen Thong Street, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City. Photo: NGUYEN NGUYEN To ensure the cleanliness of the cyberspace environment, and at the same time deter those who commit illegal acts, state management agencies such as the Ministry of Information and Communications and local authorities need to strengthen the management and supervision of activities taking place in cyberspace, promptly and promptly handle them strictly according to their assigned competence. In addition, our country should issue regulations for online social media platform providers for example in the UK, or Australia to issue a Code of Conduct on social media and online commentary. .. these regulations are intended to establish obligations for media platform providers such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google to quickly access, mark and remove defamatory statements and illegal content on platforms. their foundation. . Thank you ma'am! ................................. ... We have lost so much! I remember the afternoon of March 23, before Mrs. Nguyen Phuong Hang was arrested one day, I called a colleague, referring to the most recent incident: the Chairman of the People's Committee of Ho Chi Minh City was called in the livestream with the words. ugly. A few days earlier, people bearing the name of ""justice"", supporting Nguyen Phuong Hang still kept coming to the house of those who had opposed Hang's work to cause trouble, destroy, and beat people. “If we keep going at this rate, it's time for our brothers and sistersI just accept it as a coward, let anyone want to curse at me, anyone can do whatever they want, Vu!"" - the friend said a sentence with a look of extreme boredom. I can only tell him: Well wait, the law will not have a forbidden zone. I am a protester of Nguyen Phuong Hang's behavior over a year ago, when she began to triumph as a ""cyber hero"", cursing those in her ""cursing script"". Of course, she and her media support team didn't spare me: Let me ""on the air,"" her ""hot YouTubers"" defenders, and her media team produced slanderous articles. , misrepresented with enough dirty words. A huge fan base claiming to be ""just"", attacked me via Facebook, via text messages and even made phone calls and text messages. At that time, I just thought that my foot had stepped on a dirty place, then I washed it clean. Right and wrong, there are laws. But more than a year is too long for a bad behavior and violation of the law, in front of millions of people, day after day and escalating more and more. In that year, anyone can be hurt, made angry, depressed, disappointed. Anyone can be called out to curse, slander, block, harm the people, rob the poor: From artists, people who have just passed away, women, children, even people day and night because the life of compatriots in the epidemic center like doctors. They slandered no one except: Saying people steal, saying people work as prostitutes, surrogates, saying that a child is ""mixed"" with many fathers and many fathers. Then they criticize the leadership, also criticize the cadre's work. Non-stop, non-stop. They challenged everything: Living culture, human dignity, law... The scenario of being a ""righteous hero"" was not only Nguyen Phuong Hang but also a team, many people cursed with. They are the people who directly sit at the round table to livestream with her, to the followers on social networking platforms; especially a large number of fans in many villages and alleys. One year, Mrs. Hang and that crowd can distort the concepts of life and behaviors; caused a lot of division among the people. The beautiful concept of ""righteousness"" has been understood as strong, everyone curses, no evidence, no need for the law, as long as you say loudly that people are bad, you will be ""just"". The critical voices were attacked with curses from live broadcasts to crowds of fans online; came to the house to ask for guilt, expose the names of brothers, parents, relatives and insult in all kinds of ways. Society inadvertently becomes scary and ugly, dangerous. Many people quit their jobs, quit right, quit wrong, give up the distinction between good and bad, to support, learn, and join the ""justice movement"". The image of the country where people use such social networks is also greatly affected. Once a teenager asked: ""Miss Hang is okay, people say that Ms. Hang was beaten and the person who hit has not been hurt, so is Ms. Hang right?"". To the extent that anything can be vandalized and smeared (even state-owned press and media agencies such as VOV electronic newspaper have also been knocked down). Newspapers that analyze right and wrong, point out legal boundaries are called ""dirty newspapers"". The people's charity movement to help each other is also smeared, artists calling for charity are called ""dirty artists"". They defiantly smeared everything, blatantly for more than a year, destroying many things from visible to invisible. It is culturally and morally devastating. We lost so much in over a year!"	
"Delegates' opinions on the regulation of maximum fines in some new fields not yet regulated by the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations (XLVPHC) such as cyber security were received. On the morning of October 22, the National Assembly discussed in the hall the draft Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on administrative violations. Submitting the bill to the National Assembly at the 9th session, the Government has proposed to increase the maximum fine level in 10 areas where, according to current regulations, the maximum fine level is low, not sufficiently deterrent, not really commensurate with the nature and seriousness of the administrative violation. Accordingly, the fine level can be up to 1 billion VND for violations in the field of management of sea areas, islands and continental shelf of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; management of nuclear and radioactive substances, atomic energy; currency, precious metals, gems, banking, credit; petroleum and other mineral activities; environmental protection; Seafood."". Discussion process; Some comments suggested increasing the maximum fine levels in some other areas such as marriage and family, security and order, social safety, land, construction... through the Standing Committee, however. The National Assembly said that, through the implementation review, there were no problems or inadequacies related to the regulations on the maximum fine level of these fields. Chairman of the Legal Committee Hoang Thanh Tung said that there are suggestions to supplement regulations on maximum fines in a number of new fields not yet regulated by the Law on Administrative Procedures, such as cybersecurity, state audit, and business. According to the multi-level method, exit and entry... Receiving comments from the National Assembly deputies, the draft Law has added regulations on the maximum fine level in the field of cybersecurity in addition to the field of information security. network to synchronize with the Law on Cybersecurity, in article 24 of the Law. Accordingly, the maximum fine specified in the draft is 100 million VND for individuals violating the field of cybersecurity; network information security and many other fields such as publishing, printing... The draft law also adds a maximum fine level in state audit activities to be consistent with the Law on State Audit. Article 48a stipulates that the head of the audit team has the right to impose a fine of up to VND 30 million. The chief auditor has the power to impose fines up to the maximum amount for the respective field specified in Article 24 of this Law. The draft law also adds a maximum fine level for acts obstructing legal proceedings as a basis to prescribe specific fine levels for each act of administrative violation, ensuring consistency and synchronization with the law. provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Administrative Procedure Law. Regarding business activities by multi-level mode, exit and entry activities, the National Assembly Standing Committee said that multi-level business is a form of business in the commercial field that has been regulated by law. the maximum fine level is 100 million dong; exit and entry activities in the field of security, order and social safety have been regulated with a maximum fine of 40 million dong; Thus, it has met the requirements proposed by the National Assembly deputies. Clause 1, Article 24 of the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations is amended as follows: “1. The maximum fine levels in the fields of state management for individuals are prescribed as follows: a) A fine of up to VND 30,000,000: marriage and family; gender equality; domestic violence; storage; religious beliefs; Emulation and Reward; judicial administration; population; environmental sanitation; statistical; foreign Affair; b) A fine of up to VND 40,000,000: social order and security; obstructing legal proceedings; civil enforcement; bankruptcy of enterprises and cooperatives; electronic transactions; Postal; c) A fine of up to VND 50,000,000: fire prevention and fighting; rescue and rescue; judicial assistance; Preventive health care; HIV/AIDS prevention and control; culture; sport; travel; science and technology management; Technology transfer; protect and take care of children; social protection and relief; natural disaster prevention and control; plant protection and quarantine; management and conservation of genetic resources (except for genetic resources of livestock breeds); cultivation (except for fertilizers); veterinary medicine; accountant; independent audit; fees and charges; public property management; receipt; national reserve; chemistry; hydrometeorology; surveying and cartography; business registration; state audit; d) A fine of up to 75,000,000 VND: weak; management and protection of national borders; national defense and security; labor; education; Job education; road traffic; railway traffic; inland waterway traffic; Health Insurance; social insurance; unemployment insurance; Prevention of social evils; dd) A fine of up to VND 100,000,000: dike; medical examination and treatment; cosmetic; pharmaceuticals, medical equipment; breed; fertilizer; advertisement; wagering and bonus games; management of foreign workers; maritime traffic; civil aviation activities; management and protection of traffic works; Information Technology; telecommunication; radio frequency; network security; network information security; publish; print; Commerce; customs, tax procedures; lottery business; Insurance Business; practice thrift, fight waste; explosives management; electricity; e) Fine up to150,000,000 VND: price management; exploitation, production and trading of building materials; management of technical infrastructure works; management and development of houses and offices; Bidding; invest; g) A fine of up to VND 200,000,000: Producing and trading in banned and counterfeit goods; protect the interests of consumers; h) A fine of up to VND 250,000,000: investigation, planning, exploration, exploitation and use of water resources; irrigation; Intellectual Property; newspapers; i) A fine of up to VND 500,000,000: construction; forestry; land; real estate business; k) A fine of up to 1,000,000,000 VND: to manage the sea areas, islands and continental shelf of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; management of nuclear and radioactive substances, atomic energy; currency, precious metals, gems, banking, credit; petroleum and other mineral activities; environmental protection; Seafood.""."	
Attending the meeting were the Minister of Public Security - General To Lam, Minister, Chairman of the Government Office Tran Van Son; Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung and many other members. The meeting of the National Cybersecurity and Safety Steering Committee was to record opinions and forecast the national cybersecurity and safety situation in the coming time. At the meeting, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh stated that our country is accelerating the process of digital transformation, building an e-Government, towards a digital government, a digital economy, a digital society and a digital citizen. Therefore, protecting network safety and security must be the focus of the digital transformation process, an important, regular, continuous, urgent and long-term task, and a common responsibility of the whole system. politics and the people. This is an issue that affects the entire population, so the people must be the center and the participant. However, the situation of network safety and security is complicated, difficult to control, difficult to predict, affecting all aspects of socio-economic life, sovereignty, national security of countries and psychology. people's awareness. Therefore, the Party and State always pay close attention to and direct the work of protecting network safety and security with many undertakings and policies such as the Strategy on National Defense in Cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity. … The Prime Minister requested the National Cybersecurity and Safety Steering Committee to improve the forecasting ability, proactively have solutions suitable to reality; invest and upgrade technology; formulating priority mechanisms and policies; closely coordinate among stakeholders to mobilize resources from people, businesses, and the world... Especially when the implementation of tasks of some ministries, branches and localities is sometimes not timely; and state secrets are revealed and leaked... The National Cybersecurity and Safety Steering Committee must also play a central role, operating and directing ministries, branches and localities, creating total strength. In general, organize the implementation methodically and synchronously, achieving the highest efficiency in the work of network safety and security.	
"Currently, user data in Vietnam online has been widely used, for profit purposes, but the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage. On the morning of June 28, the Office of the President held a press conference to announce the President's order on the publication of laws passed by the National Assembly at the last 5 session, including a law specially approved by the society. Of particular interest is the Law on Cybersecurity. The Law on Cybersecurity consists of 7 chapters and 43 articles, taking effect from January 1, 2019. Presenting a number of issues of this law, Lieutenant General Hoang Phuoc Thuan, Director of the Cybersecurity Department of the Ministry of Public Security, affirmed that the law has been carefully and meticulously prepared with the participation and comments of the ministries. functional industries, more than 30 large telecommunications and information technology enterprises in the country such as VNPT, FPT, BKAV. The drafting board also received comments from many domestic and foreign experts, economic and telecommunications groups such as Facebook, Google, Apple, Amazon, the US-ASEAN Business Council, and the Asia Cloud Computing Association. , foreign representative agencies of the US, Canada, Australia, Japan... and opinions of the masses. Mr. Thuan said that the Law on Cybersecurity stipulates activities to protect national security and ensure social order and safety in cyberspace, and responsibilities of relevant agencies and organizations. Cyberspace is defined as a network connecting information technology infrastructures, including telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, and infrastructure. database. Cyberspace is a place where people perform social acts that are not limited by space and time. According to Director General Thuan, in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace, the Law on Cybersecurity fully stipulates measures to prevent, fight and handle in order to eliminate the threats, detect and handle violations of the law. Such as preventing and handling information on the Internet with propaganda content against the state, inciting riots, disrupting security, disrupting public order, humiliating, slandering; infringing upon economic management order, preventing and combating cyber espionage, protecting state secret information, work secrets, and personal information online, preventing and dealing with acts of using networks and technologies Information and electronic means to violate the law, prevent cyberattacks, cyber-terrorism... According to Mr. Thuan's assertion, the Law on Cybersecurity is a solid legal corridor for people to trade with peace of mind. , doing business or operating in cyberspace. The focus of cybersecurity protection activities is identified as state agencies and political organizations. The contents of implementing network security inspection activities for the information systems of these agencies and organizations are clearly stipulated in the law. According to the law, the national cyber infrastructure and international network gateway are also one of the key objects of protection. The use of information to slander, humiliate, infringe upon the honor, dignity and reputation of others will be strictly handled. Information from the drafting agency at the press conference also clearly stated that research and development activities on network security, technology development, products and application services are aimed at protecting network security, improving network security and improving network security. autonomy in cyber security and protection of children in cyberspace are also specified. Referring to the issue of special public concern about storing user data, Mr. Thuan said: ""Currently, user data in Vietnam on the Internet has been widely used for profit purposes. which the state does not have enough legal corridor to manage, even data has been used for political plots or violates the law, therefore, to strictly manage and protect data of Vietnam on the Internet, the law stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services in cyberspace have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing personal data, data on the relationship of users. service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam"". Regarding the plan to implement the Law on Cybersecurity, the formulation of a guiding decree ensures that people's freedom and democracy will not be affected when the law is enacted, General Thuan said, there are 24 articles referring to the Law on Cybersecurity. ensuring people's freedoms in cyberspace. In October 2018, the Ministry of Public Security will have to submit to the Government for consideration and approval decrees to specifically guide the implementation of this law."	
"Facebook is having a strong influence on the world and network users in Vietnam are no exception. Over 10 years officially entering Vietnam with more than 58 million users, this social network has been making the authorities angry because of the law violations that are taking place every day. How is Facebook's social network violating Vietnamese law? Facebook constantly has the act of ""dodging"" tax in Vietnam. Illustration. A source from the Department of Radio, Television and Electronic Information (Ministry of Information and Communications) said that, following the direction of the Minister of Information and Communications, this unit has reviewed and discovered Facebook. are violating Vietnamese law in 3 big areas: Information content management; Illegal Internet Advertising and Tax Responsibility in Vietnam. Slander, defame individuals and organizations Specifically, Facebook is not responding well to the removal of Fanpages with incitement activities against the State at the request of authorities. Currently, on Facebook, there are many personal accounts, Fanpages and groups with many posts with content that slander, oppose the government, smear and defame individuals, organizations and State agencies. . It is worth mentioning that these false and misleading content are released and spread in waves from time to time, and many reactionary organizations ... have taken advantage of Facebook's social network to smear and defame the target. political purpose. Those contents seriously violated the Vietnam Cybersecurity Law, Decree 72/2013 of the Government and Circular 38 of the Ministry of Information and Communications. Management agencies have repeatedly sent official letters and emails asking Facebook to remove misleading and misleading content. However, the largest social network on the planet has been continuously delayed, or even not removed, for the reason that the content does not violate community standards. Even this social network does not provide information about fraudulent accounts that violate Vietnamese law to serve the investigation of security agencies. Allowing illegal advertising In addition, Facebook is allowing advertising of illegal products in Vietnam such as counterfeit money, counterfeit goods, weapons, firecrackers, etc. any censorship. It is not difficult to come across ads about selling fake goods, calling for gambling or even selling sex on the Facebook page of each user in Vietnam. But the largest social network on the planet is ""indifferent"" and almost indirectly contributes to these types of illegal advertising. Images advertising illegal products still appear on the Facebook page. (Source: CTV) Images of illegal products advertising still appear on the facebook page. Source: CTV. In particular, a new violation that has emerged in recent years is that Facebook allows users to buy ads freely without content censorship. Objects can buy ads on Facebook to put targeted and oriented advertising information towards defaming, influencing and damaging individuals, businesses, agencies and organizations. .. The most dangerous thing is that Facebook will become the most effective ""weapon"" when it comes to classifying the targeted audience group as accurately and in detail as possible. A new term called ""Political advertising"" comes from this very social network with a huge user base. According to the Department of Radio, Television and Electronic Information, Political Advertising is a huge danger. At important occasions in Vietnam such as the Party congress, the Central Conference, etc., there are many kinds of advertisements with distorted content and orientation of public opinion. It is known that the Ministry of Information and Communications has sent a document to the State Bank of Vietnam requesting that they cooperate in reviewing and taking measures to prevent payment activities for illegal products and services for banks. cross-border platforms including Facebook. Tax evasion According to forecast data from market research company ANTS, in 2018, the level of spending on online advertising in Vietnam is estimated at 550 million USD, but of which ad spending on Facebook accounts for 235 million USD, while Google accounted for 152.1 million USD. Thus, Google and Facebook alone accounted for 66.7% of Vietnam's advertising market share in 2018. But these two ""big guys"" are still ""indifferent"" to their tax obligations in Vietnam. In fact, there are advertising content that violates the law of Vietnam, but because there is advertising money pouring in, Facebook still lets them exist. The fact that foreign businesses like Facebook do not pay taxes both make the state lose revenue and let the online advertising market float. A representative of the Tax Policy Department (Ministry of Finance) said that the tax collection of these companies is very complicated because there are domestic and foreign factors. The most important thing is that the tax authorities have not been able to manage the activities of units with cross-border activities in Vietnam. According to preliminary statistics, there are currently 8 telecommunications businesses for Facebook to directly connect and set up about 900 servers in Vietnam... But the important thing is thatThis social network does not have a representative office in Vietnam, and when it comes to setting up servers through telecommunications businesses, it is not legally strict. In contracts signed with telecommunications enterprises, there is no commitment to comply with Vietnamese laws. This is also a loophole for social networks like Facebook to constantly violate the law in the host country. Facebook constantly has the act of 'dodging' taxes in Vietnam. (Illustration). Facebook constantly has the act of 'dodging' taxes in Vietnam. (Illustration). To rectify, the regulator will have many ways to handle Facebook's violations in Vietnam. Accordingly, regulators will continue to gather evidence of violations and fight for Facebook to comply with the law. Require additional commitments to comply with Vietnamese laws in the Agreement between Service Providers and Facebook. In addition, Facebook must coordinate with relevant agencies to manage payment and tax activities for commercial and advertising transactions in Vietnam. And if Facebook does not take positive actions, Vietnamese regulators will apply necessary economic-technical measures to ensure a clean and healthy network environment."	
The Circular applies to high schools, high schools with many levels of education, including upper secondary schools and related organizations and individuals. The subject of National Defense and Security Education contributes to the formation and development in students of the general competencies specified in the Master Program through the subject's specific competencies: the ability to perceive national defense issues. , security and the ability to apply learned military knowledge and skills to life. The Law on Cybersecurity is one of the contents of national defense and security education. Photo Caption Students of Phan Dinh Phung High School in Hanoi learn about cyber security with lawyers from the Hanoi Bar Association. Photo: Dinh Tue Specifically, students must meet the following requirements: State some basic concepts of network, network security, privacy of personal information in the cyber environment; Understand the basic content of the Law on Cybersecurity; Secure personal information, beware of intrusive tricks, spread malicious code, and fake information online. In recent years, the strong development of social networks has affected the lives of students, even in many cases with negative effects, causing severe consequences. Some schools in big cities such as Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Quang Ninh ... have organized extra-curricular activities to propagate to teachers and students about this issue. use the internet and social networks, stay sober, do not join any inflammatory groups; Do not arbitrarily post photos of others online with untrue information and affect the dignity and honor of others.	
Decree 53/2022/ND-CP issued by the Government on August 15, 2022 detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity. Specifically, Article 26 of this Decree stipulates that data must be stored in Vietnam, including: Data about personal information of service users in Vietnam; Data generated by service users in Vietnam such as: Account name, usage time, credit card information, email address, last login and logout network address, phone number register; Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam such as: Friends, groups with which the user connects/interacts. In addition, this Article also stipulates that the subjects that must store the above data include: Domestic enterprises; Foreign enterprises conducting business in Vietnam in one of the following fields: Telecommunications services; provide domain names; ecommerce; online payment; social networks and social media; In case of force majeure and the compliance with the requirements of the law on cyber security by foreign enterprises is not possible, the foreign enterprise shall notify the Department of Cybersecurity and Prevention and Control. criminals using high technology under the Ministry of Public Security within 3 working days to check the authenticity of force majeure. In this case, the enterprise has 30 working days to find a solution. In case the data collected, exploited, analyzed and processed by the enterprise is incomplete as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the enterprise shall coordinate with the Department of Cybersecurity and High-tech Crime Prevention and Control. under the Ministry of Public Security to confirm and store all kinds of data currently being collected, exploited, analyzed and processed. In case the enterprise collects, exploits, analyzes and additionally processes the data specified in Clause 1 of this Article, the enterprise shall coordinate with the Department of Cybersecurity and Crime Prevention and Control. using high technology under the Ministry of Public Security to add to the list of data that must be stored in Vietnam. This Decree takes effect from October 1, 2022.	
"This year, the Ministry of Public Security prosecuted 131 subjects for using high technology to violate the law, and another 469 subjects were also handled for administrative violations. At Security Summit 2020, Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong - Deputy Director of the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security) shared many Important information about Vietnam's cybersecurity situation. According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, cyberattacks in Vietnam in 2020 are increasingly complicated with many sophisticated tricks. Cybercriminals have used a variety of innovative malware, focusing on corporate organizations. {keywords} Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong - Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security). Photo: Trong Dat This year, the Ministry of Public Security discovered that 2,600 portals and domain names "".vn"" were hacked. Counterfeiting the information portals of the State and the Ministry of Public Security to steal data and defraud properties takes place regularly, adversely affecting the reputation of the police agency. Even the website of the Ministry of Public Security has been spoofed by bad guys. Particularly in the third quarter, Cybersecurity and high-tech crime prevention and control detected 937 Vietnamese websites and portals that were attacked by hackers, changed the interface or inserted files (increased 28% over the same period last year). In which, there are 193 websites under the management of state agencies. {keywords} Vietnam's information security situation has seen many positive changes recently. Currently, Vietnam is in the top 50 in the world and 11th in Asia in terms of network safety and security. Photo: Trong Dat Many websites, blogs, fanpages and Facebook accounts have continuously posted information and articles with malicious and distorting content related to the Covid-19 epidemic situation. Particularly in the third quarter, there were more than 1,902 articles, information and videos with malicious content. There are misinformation about the number of infected people and deaths, thereby causing confusion among the public. According to statistics from the Ministry of Public Security, this year there have been 540 fraud cases in 56 localities. Acts of impersonating law enforcement agencies to defraud and appropriate property also tend to increase sharply. Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong said that the fraudster's main trick is to pretend to be a law enforcement agency by calling and then asking the victim to transfer money to the account for police supervision. {keywords} Recently, there have been many fraudulent calls pretending to be the authorities. Multi-level vigilance, rampant counterfeiting For the type of cybercrime, the Ministry of Public Security also recorded the appearance of lines of arms, explosives, combat gears, and ghosts. drugs, narcotics, fake papers and diplomas. In addition, there is the spread and distribution of depraved cultural products through the method of forming closed groups on Zalo, Facebook, Twitter, etc. The number of cybercriminals in the field of electronic payment, finance, banking continues continue to increase. The main method of this type of crime is to use the benefits of gratitude and promotion programs to send messages containing fake links. In addition, they also use junk SIM to impersonate a bank employee, report errors and ask customers to provide passwords, OTP codes,... {keywords} Model of a Security Operation Center - SOC). Photo: Trong Dat Taking advantage of the epidemic situation, many bad guys also create applications to call for participation, help and support people in difficult circumstances to steal personal information for the purpose of withdrawing money, transfer. In Vietnam, there have also appeared a number of signs of violations of the law on smuggling, tax evasion, trading in counterfeit goods, poor quality goods, fraud, and fraud on goods on e-commerce platforms. Through the process of reviewing 750,000 stalls and nearly 3 million products on 8 major e-commerce platforms such as Shopee, Sendo, Tiki, Chodientu, Lazada, etc., the Ministry of Public Security has handled and removed nearly 8,900 stalls with approximately 23,000 infringing products. According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, cross-border payment activities have not been strictly controlled in Vietnam, leading to many potential risks of tax evasion and money laundering. This expert also noted about the variation of online multi-level business activities in the form of functional food items of unknown origin or calling for investment and trading in virtual currency. Vietnam's cybersecurity challenges in 2021 In order to handle various types of cybercrime, the Ministry of Public Security has advised the Government to issue many policies, including guiding documents on the implementation of the Security Law. network, regulations on protection of personal data and penalties for administrative violations in the field of network security. The Ministry of Public Security has also prosecuted 131 subjects for using high technology to violate the law. In addition, 469 other subjects were handled for administrative violations. {keywords} The explosion of smart devices connected to the Internet will come with certain risks in terms of network security. Photo: Trong Dat According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, there are many cybersecurity problems that VietnamNam needs to proactively respond in 2021. Most notably is the increase of targeted attack activities (APTs) targeting the data of large agencies, organizations and enterprises, especially in banking and finance. The second risk comes from fake news, false information that is widely posted online. Next are the activities of fraud, property appropriation, gambling, illegal business, exchange and sharing of network attack tools, theft, trading of personal data, unauthorized use of information. credit card information to pay for services, online purchases. With the explosion of smart devices, artificial intelligence and mobile applications, the world in the next years will be associated with certain risks in terms of network security. In that never-ending war, countries, organizations and businesses can only work closely together to create a safe cyberspace."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity passed at the 5th session of the XIV National Assembly will take effect from January 1, 2019. The Law consists of 7 Chapters and 43 Articles. In particular, the Law dedicates an entire article on the protection of children in cyberspace (Article 27). Accordingly, children have the right to protection, access to information, participate in social activities, play, entertain, keep personal secrets, private life and other rights when participating in cyberspace. . Owners of information systems, service providers on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace are responsible for controlling information content on information systems or on services provided by enterprises. provided so as not to cause harm to children, infringe upon children, children's rights; prevent the sharing and deletion of information with content harmful to children, infringing upon children and children's rights; promptly notify and coordinate with the specialized network security force under the Ministry of Public Security to handle. Agencies, organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace have the responsibility to coordinate with competent agencies in ensuring children's rights in cyberspace, and preventing information with harmful contents. children in accordance with this Law and the law on children. The law also clearly stipulates: Agencies, organizations, parents, teachers, caregivers and other relevant individuals have the responsibility to ensure children's rights and protect children when participating in cyberspace according to the law. provisions of the law on children. The specialized force for cybersecurity protection and functional agencies are responsible for applying measures to prevent, detect, stop and strictly handle acts of using cyberspace that are harmful to children or infringing. violation of children, children's rights. Previously, the Law on Children 2016 which took effect from June 1, 2017 also clearly stipulates ""Responsibility to protect children in the online environment"" (Article 54). Accordingly, relevant agencies and organizations are responsible for propagating, educating and protecting children when participating in the online environment in any form; Parents, teachers and caregivers of children are responsible for educating children in knowledge and skills so that children know how to protect themselves when participating in the online environment. Agencies, organizations and individuals that manage and provide information and communication products and services and organize activities in the network environment must take measures to ensure safety and confidentiality of private life. children in accordance with the law. In Article 33, Decree 56/2017/ND-CP guiding the implementation of the 2016 Children's Law also clearly stipulates that children's private life and personal secrets must be protected in the online environment. Confidential information about a child's private life, personal secrets include: name, age; personally identifiable characteristics; health and private life information recorded in the medical record; personal image; information about family members, caregivers of children; personal property; phone number; personal mailing address; address, information about place of residence, hometown; addresses, information about the children's schools, grades, academic performance and friendships; information about services provided to individual children. Thus, the Cybersecurity Law with specific provisions on the protection of children in cyberspace has shown consistency with other laws and regulations. In particular, the Law stipulates more specifically that the responsibility of telecommunications and internet enterprises... is to ""prevent sharing"" and ""delete"" information with content that is harmful and infringing on children. This is very necessary to be able to protect children in time against harmful information in cyberspace."	
"Minister of Public Security To Lam has just responded to voters' petitions about the situation of information technology crimes. Sending petitions to the National Assembly, voters in some localities reflected that, in recent times, the situation of information technology crimes has tended to increase, such as giving fake and untrue information, distorting the roads. the Party's guidelines and policies, and the State's laws and policies. It is proposed that functional agencies have sanctions to strictly handle violators, and have solutions to speed up the fight against crime. Responding to the above petition, the Ministry of Public Security said that in the past time, it has directed the functional forces to focus on preventing and fiercely fighting against illegal acts in cyberspace. In the first 6 months of 2020, the Ministry of Public Security's functional forces discovered nearly 790,000 news, articles and videos with malicious and untrue content, especially the ""storm of fake news"" related to the epidemic situation. Covid-19; verified and fought with nearly 1,500 subjects; prosecuted 17 subjects; sanctioning administrative violations of nearly 470 subjects who spread false information on social networking sites"", the written response to voters' petitions said. At the same time, in order to create a legal basis for strict handling and deterrence against law-breaking activities in cyberspace, the Ministry of Public Security has completed the development and submitted to the Government a draft Decree on regulations on expenditures. detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity; Currently waiting for the Government to consider promulgating. Receiving voters' recommendations, in the coming time, the Ministry of Public Security will continue to closely coordinate with relevant authorities to apply sanctions to strictly handle law violations and crimes occurring in the air. cyberspace. The Ministry will also direct functional units to deploy solutions to focus on preventing, detecting and fighting crimes in the fields of information technology, telecommunications networks and crimes using high technology. Regarding the prevention and fight against crime and law violations in the field of information technology and telecommunications networks, the updated report on data until September 30, 2020 sent to the National Assembly, Minister To Lam said. , the Ministry of Public Security has investigated and arrested many subjects who set up many websites, facebook, and virtual zalo, defrauding billions of dong. Through the review, discovered nearly 811,000 news, articles and videos with malicious, untruthful, destructive propaganda, mainly on social networks. Verified, summoned to fight, deter and remind 1,625 social media users who posted false information about the prevention and control of the Covid-19 epidemic, prosecuted 17 subjects, sanctioned main 482 objects. Minister To Lam said that crimes and violations in the field of information technology and telecommunications networks are becoming more and more complicated with many new criminal methods and tricks, transnational activities and happening. in many areas, causing great damage. Acts are increasingly diverse, increasing in scale and dangerous nature, causing great economic losses, infringing upon the rights and interests of organizations and individuals; the situation of criminals using telecommunications networks and the Internet to commit fraud; gambling, organizing large-scale gambling occurs in many localities with large amounts of money, causing serious consequences. The Ministry of Public Security dismantled an internet gambling ring with an amount of VND 20,000 billion, involving many provinces and cities such as Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Lao Cai and Da Nang. Hanoi busts a line to organize gambling and gambling on the Internet with the amount of VND 64,000 billion. Ninh Binh abolished 2 online gambling cases with an amount of nearly 30 billion VND - Minister reported to the National Assembly."	
"That is part of the answer to a question from delegate Nguyen Ngoc Phuong about the implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity as well as the results achieved since the law took effect. Delegate Phuong wondered if the problems in cyberspace had been solved. Before this question, Minister Nguyen Manh Hung affirmed: We solved problems in cyberspace before the Law on Cybersecurity and when there was a law, we did it much stronger. As proof of this, the Minister presented the results of working with cross-border social platforms. According to him, in the past with Facebook, if we asked for 100, they would only do 20-30%, but now this rate has increased to 70%. Google if we ask 100 they only comply about 40-50%, but now it increases to 85%, even 90%, for example, removing bad games like gambling. Along with that, the Cybersecurity Law is also the basis for authorities to handle impersonating websites. The Minister said that recently, many pages impersonating Party and State leaders have been handled. Minister Nguyen Manh Hung talked about the management of foreign social networks operating in Vietnam. Commenting on pages impersonating Party and State leaders, the Minister said that: These pages initially put information to gain trust. readers' news. On a beautiful day, those pages, after gaining the trust of readers, give false information in an emergency situation, which is very dangerous. With such awareness, the Ministry has coordinated with relevant agencies and has the force to solve this problem. “In the past 2 months, the Ministry has done very strongly, removing and taking down 207 impersonating websites. If there is a website that is a website, it will be blocked, and a page on a social network platform will coordinate to prevent it. Of these, there are 46 pages with names of Party and State leaders,"" said the minister. In the near future, the Ministry of Information and Communications will work with leaders, members of the Government, the National Assembly, leaders of localities and ministries on this issue. Although they wear masks in cyberspace, they still know who they are when they need to. At the question of delegate Pham Van Hoa (Dong Thap) about the act of spreading offensive images, posting untrue articles online, The Minister of Information responded: “If any individual is detected, they must immediately report to the relevant authorities for handling. The source of offensive images, untrue information is still from the person who spread the news."" For example, advertising is irresponsible, doing business is not fair, in countries people put all the responsibility on the agency that produces the goods, but they do not push the responsibility to the poster. However, in Vietnam, both the advertising agency and the production unit are responsible. He said that in the near future, the Ministry will finalize regulations on handling people who report false news. Minister Nguyen Manh Hung answered the question: ""Squeeze"" Facebook and Google thanks to the Law on Cybersecurity Photo 1 Delegates questioned Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung According to the Minister, there are currently legal corridors was also adequate to handle. There are still some difficulties because some foreign social networks when asked to clarify user information, they do not understand. “In the near future, the Law on Cybersecurity will strictly require this. When requested by the investigating agency, the network operator must provide the identity of the account holder. Those who intend to spread fake information will have to stop,"" Minister Nguyen Manh Hung said, and advised that any individual discovered must immediately report to the authorities for a form of handling. Talk about whatever you want to say, don't know who you are on social networks, and then you can't find out who's spreading the news. ""Everybody in cyberspace wears a mask, but when needed, we can still find out who they are,"" said Minister Nguyen Manh Hung."	
"A court in Dong Nai on November 9 upheld the first-instance sentence of 15 defendants with a maximum sentence of 18 months in prison for ""disturbing public order"" under article 318 of the Penal Code. These defendants joined a protest on June 10 in a wave of people taking to the streets to protest the Law on Special Economic Zones, which includes provisions for foreign investors to lease land in three special economic zones of Vietnam. up to 99 years, and the Cybersecurity Law, which is supposed to help the government stifle free speech on the internet. These are the defendants who ""used to take advantage of the National Assembly's discussion of the Draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units and the Law on Cybersecurity to disrupt public order,"" the news agency said. .” At the appeal hearing, the defense lawyer said that the defendants joined hundreds of other people carrying banners and banners on June 10 on some roads in Bien Hoa city, according to VOV. According to the lawyers, these convicts just wanted to express their opinions, not intentionally breaking the law. Meanwhile, the People's Procuracy of Dong Nai province said that ""the subjects gathered in horizontal rows, shouting inciting many people to cause traffic jams, affecting the security and order situation on the roads. is a crime of disturbing public order as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 318 of the Penal Code.” This council considers that the first-instance judgment that the People's Court of Bien Hoa city declared on July 30 was ""right person, right crime"" and upheld the sentences for 15 defendants from 8 months to 18 months in prison. according to VOV. Many of those who participated in the June protests were brought to trial by the authorities and received months in prison. On October 31, the court of Binh Thuan province sentenced an additional 30 people who participated in the protests against two controversial bills on June 10 with sentences ranging from 2 years to 3 and a half years for ""causing trouble"". public order."" Will Nguyen, a Vietnamese-American citizen, was also detained for more than a month in Ho Chi Minh City for participating in protests with city people on June 10. This American student was then expelled from Vietnam after a trial on July 20. The Law on Cybersecurity was passed by the National Assembly on June 12 and will officially take effect on January 1, 2019, while the discussion on the passage of the Law on Special Economic Zones has been postponed to next year."	
Decree 53/2022/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity states that, the Minister of Public Security directly decides to suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system. , revoke domain names violating the law on network security. Regulations on the order and procedures for suspending, temporarily suspending or requesting to stop operation of the information system or revoke domain names are implemented in accordance with Decree No. 53/2022/ND-CP. The Minister of Public Security shall directly decide to suspend, temporarily suspend or request the shutdown of the information system, and revoke domain names with activities in violation of the law on network security. Specifically, cases where there are documents proving that the operation of the information system is a violation of the law on national security, network security and information systems are being used for the purpose of infringing upon national security. The domain name will be revoked, social order and safety will be suspended and operation will be suspended. Within 24 hours from the date of request, the Department of Cybersecurity and High-tech Crime Prevention and Control of the Ministry of Public Security must send a written request to suspend, suspend or stop information system operations. If the above time limit is exceeded without a written decision, the information system may continue to operate. Depending on the nature, extent and consequences caused by the delay in sending the request, the implementing officer and relevant persons shall be responsible in accordance with the law. Decree 53/2022 also states that, if the suspension, temporary suspension or request to stop the operation of the information system is unfounded, the heads, deputy heads of competent agencies and officials shall related agencies must be held responsible before law. If causing damage to related agencies, organizations or individuals, they must compensate according to the provisions of law. The Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control under the Ministry of Public Security shall have to implement the decision on suspension, temporary suspension or request to stop the operation of the information system and revoke the domain name.	
The Government has just issued Decree 70/2021/ND-CP to amend and supplement a number of articles of Decree No. 181/2013/ND-CP in 2013, detailing the implementation of a number of articles of the Law on Advertising. . The new decree was developed and promulgated at the proposal of the Ministry of Information and Communications to tighten the provision of cross-border advertising services in Vietnam such as Google, Facebook, and Youtube when these platforms are occupying a large share of the market. large advertising revenue on digital platforms in Vietnam. In this new decree, the provision of cross-border advertising services in Vietnam is the use of foreign organizations and individuals by foreign organizations and individuals to use advertising service business websites from the system of devices provided by the Internet. services located outside the territory of Vietnam, for users in Vietnam, generating revenue in Vietnam. Decree 70 stipulates that advertising service dealers, advertising publishers and domestic and foreign advertisers participating in the provision of cross-border advertising services in Vietnam must comply with the following regulations: regulations of Vietnamese law on advertising, regulations on network security and regulations on management, provision and use of Internet services and information on the network; must pay tax in accordance with tax laws. Accordingly, from September 15, 2021, foreign organizations and individuals doing business in cross-border advertising services in Vietnam must notify the Ministry of Information and Communications (TT&TT): Name of organization, name transactions, address of the head office where advertising service provision activities are registered; the location of the main server system providing the service and the server system located in Vietnam (if any). Along with that is the Contact: name of the representative organization or individual in Vietnam (if any), email address, contact phone. The notification must be made 15 days before starting the business of cross-border advertising services in Vietnam. In addition, foreign organizations and individuals trading in cross-border advertising services in Vietnam must not place advertising products on content that violates the law specified in Clause 1, Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity. Article 28 Law on Intellectual Property. Also in Decree 70, the Government requires foreign organizations and individuals trading in cross-border advertising services in Vietnam to prevent and remove information that violates the law at the request of the Ministry of Information and Communications. Media and competent authorities. At the same time, they must also provide information about organizations and individuals involved in cross-border advertising activities showing signs of violating the law to the authorities. The Ministry of Information and Communications will be the agency that receives notifications about illegal cross-border advertising and is the contact point, sending requests to handle infringing ads. At the same time, it is responsible for reviewing and checking infringing content, and sending handling requests to foreign organizations and individuals trading in cross-border advertising services. After receiving the request from the Ministry of Information and Communications, the units must handle violations within 24 hours. After the above time limit, if not processed and without good reason, the Ministry will take measures to prevent these advertisements. In case of detecting cross-border advertisements that violate the law affecting national security, the competent authorities will immediately stop the infringing advertisements. According to information from the Ministry of Information and Communications, currently cross-border advertising services such as Google, Youtube, Facebook are accounting for the majority of advertising revenue on digital platforms in Vietnam. The birth of the decree is considered to bring benefits to the press and media agencies. Many citizens hope this new regulation will help prevent bullshit advertising on cross-border platforms, especially content that is harmful to children. Decree 70/2021/ND-CP officially takes effect from September 15, 2021	
In Clause 1, Article 19 of the Law on Cybersecurity, it provides for cyberattacks and acts related to cyberattacks, including: computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases, electronic means; b) Obstructing, disrupting, paralyzing, interrupting, stopping the operation, illegally preventing the transmission of data of telecommunications networks, internet, computer networks, information systems, processing systems; management and control of information and electronic means; What behaviors are considered cyberattacks? A network security hub. Illustration: VNA. c) Infiltrating, damaging or appropriating data stored or transmitted via telecommunications networks, internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases , electronic means; d) Infiltrating, creating or exploiting weaknesses, security holes and system services to appropriate information and gain illicit profits; dd) Producing, buying, selling, exchanging, donating tools, equipment and software capable of attacking telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems; information, databases and electronic means to be used for illegal purposes; e) Other acts that affect the normal operation of telecommunications networks, the internet, computer networks, information systems, information processing and control systems, databases, and electronic means. * Reader Bui Thi Yen in Dong Son ward, Dong Hoi city, Quang Binh province, asked: How does the law regulate the rights of notaries? Answer: Clause 1, Article 17 of the Law on Notary has specific provisions on the rights of notaries. Specifically as follows: a) The right to practice notarial practice is guaranteed by law; b) Participating in the establishment of a notary public or working under a contract regime for a notary practice organization; c) Notarized contracts, transactions, translations in accordance with this Law; d) Request relevant individuals, agencies and organizations to provide information and documents for notarization; dd) To refuse to notarize contracts, transactions or translations in violation of law or against social ethics; e) Other rights as prescribed by this Law and other relevant legal documents.	
"Director of the Provincial Civil Judgment Execution Department, Chairman of the Provincial Bar Association Phan Van Chau said that each individual using cyberspace must know and understand what the law allows to do and prohibits to behave accordingly. fit. At the same time, have the responsibility to behave in accordance with the Code of Conduct on social networks (MXH) according to Decision 874/QD-BTTTT dated June 17, 2021 of the Ministry of Information and Communications. * The law clearly stipulates that Through electronic devices such as computers, smartphones with internet connection, users can exchange, make friends, exchange, share and exploit information with each other at any time. Anytime, anywhere, personal interests, need to learn. However, in fact, there are still many people who use social networks irresponsibly, leading to sharing, posting, and distributing information and images that violate personal privacy, false information, and pure violations. customs… but still don't know they're violating. According to Mr. Phan Van Chau, that is a worrying thing, easily leading to violations of the law on using cyberspace, mainly on social networks such as Zalo, Facebook, YouTube. The above violations are becoming more and more common, causing difficulties for the state management of competent agencies, causing public anger. In order to raise awareness and responsibility of social media users, the Ministry of Information and Communications has just issued a Code of Conduct on social media to build ethical standards of behavior on social networks, educate awareness, create habits positive habits in the behavior of users on social networks, contributing to building a safe and healthy network. At the same time, the user's specific responsibilities are specified, specifically as follows: must be responsible for learning and complying with the terms of use of the social network service provider before registering, participating in social networks festival; share information from official and reliable sources… “This means that social media users are obliged to know the legal regulations in using cyberspace. When violating, social network users cannot blame because they do not understand the law, or do not understand the law when violating, they will not be handled, ""- Mr. Phan Van Chau noted. * Administrative and criminal handling if violated Also according to Mr. Phan Van Chau, the irresponsible users in the exploitation and use of cyberspace will be disciplined depending on the nature and severity of the violation. , handle administrative violations or be examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law. Article 101 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 on sanctioning of administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions A fine of between VND 10-20 million shall be imposed for taking advantage of social networks to perform one of the following acts: providing and sharing fake information, untrue information, distorting, slandering, insulting prestige of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals; providing and sharing information promoting customs, superstitions, superstitions, lewdness, debauchery, not in line with the nation's fine customs and traditions; provide and share information detailing the action of slashing, killing, accidents, horror, horror; providing, sharing fabricated information, causing confusion among the people, inciting violence, crimes, social evils, gambling or serving gambling; providing and sharing links to online information with prohibited content… In addition, Decree 15/2020/ND-CP also stipulates a fine of between VND 20-30 million for acts of disclosing information belonging to the Government. lists of state secrets, personal secrets and other secrets that are not serious enough to be prosecuted for criminal liability. In addition, the 2015 Penal Code stipulates that those who take advantage of computer and telecommunications networks to commit slander or insult the honor and dignity of others are considered aggravating circumstances. This act is punishable by imprisonment for up to 2 years (for humiliation) and 3 years (for slander). Particularly in Article 288 (criminal of illegally giving or using information on computer networks and telecommunications networks), a fine of between VND 30-200 million, a non-custodial reform for up to 3 years or a prison term of between 6 months and 7 five. According to Article 290, the crime of using computer networks, telecommunications networks, and electronic means to appropriate property is punishable by up to 20 years in prison. In order for social media users to consciously, responsibly, and comply with the law, lawyer Vong Khieng, director of the Legal Consulting Center (Provincial Lawyers Association), said that the authorities need to do a good job. state management; issue guiding documents in a timely manner; strictly and resolutely handle violating organizations and individuals. Especially in the coming time, there must be many measures and solutions to clean up the social network environment, not to let any individual take advantage of social media to post slander, curse, smear others, threaten each other, incite violence. Unverified fake information causes public anger and confusion, and violates the moral rights of other individuals."	
"Accordingly, Trend Micro experts have made 5 predictions for the security situation - network security in 2019, specifically as follows: SMS fraud will replace email With aggregated data from In 2018, experts predict that phishing campaigns will thrive in the coming year. Specifically, in online phishing campaigns, criminals will pretend to be a reputable organization or individual to trick the victim into providing confidential information. This offensive activity of cybercriminals has existed for many years, but it is quickly replaced by tools that can secretly exploit users' personal information from software on the device in an increasingly popular form. more sophisticated and difficult to detect than before. Notably, in addition to online fraud via email, cybercriminals also use scams via SMS messages and conversation frames of applications of social networks. The purpose of cybercriminals is to fraudulently obtain information about online banking accounts, or accounts stored in online cloud services (iCloud). After obtaining important information from the user, the cybercriminal will disguise himself and try to convince the carrier's customer care support to reissue the SIM card and the victim's phone number, then proceed to the next step. to control the online accounts authenticated by the victim's phone number. Experts also predict that the content that cybercriminals can exploit in 2019 will include important sporting or political events that will take place next year such as: Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo and online election events in various countries around the world. Automated chats will be abused by cybercriminals With today's ever-expanding social networking platforms, online messaging platforms are also growing in importance and becoming more popular than ever. This inadvertently also becomes one of the exploit targets of hackers. Experts predict that in 2019, attacks through the abuse of chatbots (automatic chat) will grow rampant and become more dangerous and complex. Just as the telephonic attack campaign has been developed, cybercriminals will leverage pre-designed messaging platforms and interactive voice response (IVR) systems to create chatbots, thereby scam them through malicious links. When the victim opens this link, the cybercriminal installs a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) in the victim's computer to steal data or blackmail them. Celebrities' accounts are also targets of cybercriminals. With the development of Stream (social media) platforms and the current game technology industry, cybercriminals will exploit, attack and exploit. impersonating famous YouTubers, Vloggers and Streamers to trick through Watering Hole Attack (the name of an online phishing attack) to bypass users. Specifically, cybercriminals will look for accounts with several million followers, attack them, and use this account to scam users. Between the time of the attack and the time when the account holder realizes and recovers the account, cybercriminals will send followers malicious links asking followers to click and download. The monitor's computer will be infected with malicious code and attacked by cybercriminals, exploiting personal information as well as e-wallets. Predictions about cybersecurity in 2019, warning that attacks with sensitive images and videos will increase - Photo 2. Accordingly, Facebook is considered a ""channel"" that continues to have many complicated developments in security. Internet in 2019 Attacks on sensitive images and videos are on the rise This is an attack tactic called Sextortion by reaching users through online dating apps. Cybersecurity experts have noticed an increasing number of reports of teenagers and young adults being blackmailed in sextortion attacks. Even without any proof that the attacker will fulfill the promises, the high personal impact of this attack tactic will make the victim seriously consider complying with the requests. criminal demand. The Ministry of Public Security stated 4 reasons for data storage regulations, setting a branch in Vietnam in the Cybersecurity Law is appropriate. Predictions, this attack tactic will explode with more risks in the coming 2019 . Related to this issue, recently Bkav Technology Group also announced the results of its assessment of the cybersecurity situation in 2018. Accordingly, in 2018, damage caused by computer viruses to with Vietnamese users has reached a record of 14,900 billion dong, equivalent to 642 million USD, 21% more than the loss of 2017. Globally, cybercrime causes about 600 billion in damage. USD per year, equivalent to 0.8% of global GDP. In particular, the East Asia region lost an estimated $120-200 billion, equivalent to 0.53-0.89% of the region's GDP. Damage level642 million USD, equivalent to 0.26% of Vietnam's GDP, although not high compared to the region and the world, but also an alarming record. According to statistics from Bkav's virus monitoring system, more than 1.6 million computers in Vietnam lost data in 2018. Bkav experts also made a forecast about malicious code using artificial intelligence. AI generation is likely to emerge within the next year. Fraudulent spam on Facebook will have many variations, not only in the form of comments, the bad guys may thoroughly use other forms such as chat messenger, invite friends or tag in articles, watch together. …"	
"Violating the Law on Cybersecurity Talking to a reporter from the Economic & Urban newspaper about the above issue, lawyer Nguyen Hoai Nghia - Chau Duong law firm (Ho Chi Minh City Bar Association) affirmed: ""The Voice of Vietnam Radio Nam (VOV) is a national radio station under the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The radio station has the task of ""Propaganda of the Party's lines and policies and the laws of the State and the National Assembly, contributing to raising the people's intellectual level, serving the people's spiritual life"". Ministry of Information and Communications on press activities, frequencies, transmission and broadcasting. Therefore, VOV is one of the important technical and infrastructure projects, especially in terms of national security. Therefore, all acts of infringing on VOV activities, including in cyberspace, have violated the 2018 Cybersecurity Law, must be handled strictly in accordance with the law. VOV electronic newspaper was attacked: Need to prosecute the case to investigate - Photo 1 VOV website has resumed operation after being attacked on June 12 and 13. Screenshots. Information from VOV said that VOV's online newspaper was attacked by a denial of service (DDoS) attack, causing bandwidth overflow, making access to the newspaper crippled. At the same time, the fanpage of this newspaper also received tens of thousands of negative and offensive comments. According to lawyer Nguyen Hoai Nghia, for these acts, the law has provisions and sanctions both administratively and criminally as well as settlement of damages according to the civil law. Regarding administrative sanctions, there are provisions in Decree 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 of the Government stipulating the sanction of administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, and radio frequencies. electricity, information technology and electronic transactions. Accordingly, in Article 80, a fine of between 10 and 20 million dong is imposed for cracking, stealing, using passwords, cryptographic keys and information of other organizations and individuals in the network environment. A fine of between VND 30 - 50 million for one of the following acts: Illegally accessing another person's network or digital device to gain control of a digital device or change or delete information stored on the device number or change digital device settings or collect other people's information; Infiltrate, modify or delete information contents of other organizations and individuals in the network environment; Obstructing service provision of information systems; Prevent access to information of other organizations and individuals in the network environment, except where permitted by law; Losing the safety and confidentiality of information of other organizations and individuals that are exchanged, transmitted or stored in the network environment. For foreigners who commit the above violations, they will be expelled from the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Regarding sanctions in accordance with the criminal law, lawyer Nguyen Hoai Nghia added: Depending on the nature, severity and serious consequences, violators may be examined for penal liability according to the provisions of Article 1 of this Law. 288 Penal Code (PC) 2015 on the crime of “illegally giving or using information on computer networks and telecommunications networks”, with a maximum penalty of 7 years in prison. Or being prosecuted under article 289 for the crime of ""Illegally entering another person's computer network, telecommunications network or electronic means"" with a maximum penalty of 12 years in prison. In addition, if using computer networks, telecommunications networks or electronic means to illegally access the accounts of agencies, organizations and individuals to appropriate property, they may be handled according to Article 290. the crime of ""Using computer networks, telecommunications networks, or electronic means to commit acts of appropriation of property"", shall be sentenced to non-custodial reform for up to 3 years or a prison term of from 6 months to a maximum of 20 years. On the other hand, the hacker's behavior, after infiltrating, obtaining the personal information of others and posting this information on social networks, causing serious consequences, seriously offending the dignity and honor of others, can was penalized for the crime of “humiliating others” specified in article 155 of the 2015 Penal Code, with a maximum penalty of 5 years in prison. Therefore, if through the investigation process it is determined that the violation is aimed at ""against the people's administration"", those who commit the act must be criminally responsible for the crime "" Destroying material and technical foundations of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam” according to article 114 of the 2015 Penal Code. Because the violator intentionally damaged the communication system, communication is the goal and publicity. important infrastructure projects, especially in terms of national security. Violators of this crime, depending on the nature and level of each person's role, can be sentenced to imprisonment from 12 to 20 years, life or death, respectively. Committing the crime in less serious cases, the offenders shall be sentenced to between 5 and 15 years; The person who prepares to commit this crime is sentenced to between 1 and 5 years in prison. “From a legal perspective, the right to freedom of speech and expression of opinions online is permitted and protected by law. But must be on the moldthe law, avoid taking advantage to commit wrongful acts, infringe upon the rights and interests of the State, other organizations and individuals, infringe on privacy, or the right to image, dignity and reputation of any individual. Through the attack of VOV, it is found that with a series of signs of violation, it is necessary to prosecute the case to investigate and clarify the signs of violations and promptly handle them strictly according to the law. . At the same time, with the investigation and specific conclusions, it will avoid the psychology of subjective attribution, taking the fact that this phenomenon is attached to the behavior of another subject, causing misunderstanding, even anger, being abused. unjustified suspicions of unrelated people, because both the administrative and criminal laws identify a subject or an act that is considered a violation when there are sufficient proofs according to the order and procedures established by the law. regulations, must pass an effective judgment or decision of a competent person. No individual or unit can ""condemn"" themselves according to the way of ""the world of heaven"", taking the power of cyberspace as a judgment"", lawyer Nguyen Hoai Nghia said."	
On May 29, at the morning session, the National Assembly deputies worked in the hall. In the afternoon, the delegates discussed at the group about the Vietnam Coast Guard Law project and the Amnesty Law project (amended). In the morning session, the National Assembly discussed in the hall the draft Law on Cybersecurity. The bill was first commented on at the 4th session at the end of 2017. The majority of delegates agreed on the necessity of promulgating the Law on Cybersecurity in the current context, in order to ensure national security and order. social safety in cyberspace. However, many delegates had mixed opinions on whether foreign network enterprises should set up a representative office in Vietnam. Regarding ensuring information security in cyberspace for foreign enterprises when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam (Clause 4, Article 34 of the draft Law submitted by the Government), many opinions agree with the regulation. The law requires foreign enterprises, when providing telecommunications and internet services in Vietnam, to set up a representative agency or server to manage Vietnamese user data in Vietnam. Some opinions disagree with this regulation because they think that it is difficult to ensure the feasibility, is not true to reality, increases the costs of foreign enterprises, makes it difficult for activities to access information and is contrary to reality. With international commitments to which Vietnam is a member... it is recommended to study other management methods accordingly. In this regard, Chairman of the National Assembly's Committee for National Defense and Security Vo Trong Viet presented a report on the explanation, reception and revision of the Cybersecurity Law project, saying: After considering many aspects, at the same time Referring to the similar provisions of the laws of some countries that are members of the WTO, on the requirement to set up a data management server in the territory of Vietnam, the Standing Committee of the National Assembly has directed not to regulate this content. in the draft Law to ensure the feasibility and convenience for the operation of foreign enterprises when providing services to Vietnam. Regarding the requirement to set up a representative agency and store Vietnamese user data in the Vietnamese territory, the National Assembly Standing Committee proposed to retain this content in the draft Law and combine it with similar provisions for domestic enterprises to amend into Clause 2, Article 26 of the revised draft Law. Such regulation will meet the requirements of protecting national sovereignty over electronic data and handling situations and acts in cyberspace that infringe upon national security, social order and safety. Besides, it is consistent with the international treaties to which Vietnam is a member, in accordance with the 2013 Constitution and meets the requirements of the current practical situation. Such regulation also creates a legal corridor for functional ministries and branches to strictly manage the activities of enterprises providing cross-border services into Vietnam; ensure payment sovereignty, combat loss of tax collection; ensure the fairness between foreign enterprises and domestic enterprises. Giving opinions at the discussion groups, the delegates agreed that the amendments and supplements to the Law on Amnesty in 2007 are necessary to ensure compliance with the 2013 Constitution, with the provisions of the laws related to private equity. New criminal law was approved by the National Assembly and solved problems and difficulties in the work of amnesty consideration over the past time. Regarding the Coast Guard Law project, the delegates agreed that the promulgation of the law is necessary, in order to institutionalize the Party's guidelines and policies, and relevant provisions of the 2013 Constitution on strengthening the potential of the Coast Guard. national defense and security, and building forces at sea, overcoming obstacles and inadequacies in the implementation of the Ordinance on the Vietnam Coast Guard. According to delegates, the bill was raised from the Ordinance on the Coast Guard, but with significant additions in content, besides, the delegates asked the drafting committee to continue to review the current regulations. , including sub-law documents to provide more comprehensive, comprehensive and complete regulations.	
"On the morning of November 9, after the solemn flag-raising ceremony of the first morning of the week, hundreds of students from Nam Tu Liem Secondary School were received by Lieutenant Than Van Giap, an officer of the Cybersecurity and Crime Prevention Department. Using high technology, Hanoi City Police (CATP) introduced the basic contents of the Cybersecurity Law, guiding the safe, civilized, lawful use of social networks and how to keep information secure. personal information on the Internet. Propagating and introducing the Law on Cybersecurity to students Photo 1 Propagating and disseminating legal education in schools has become an annual activity of CATP Hanoi According to Senior Lieutenant Colonel Nguyen Manh Tuan, Deputy Head of the Party Affairs Department and political work CATP Hanoi, propaganda and dissemination of the Law on Cybersecurity is included in Plan 225 on ""Organization of legal education and propaganda activities in schools in the city. Hanoi in 2020"" with the aim of equipping students with legal knowledge in schools in the capital. Currently, the trend of the world is developing strongly in information technology, social networks have brought people closer together, diverse utilities effectively serve economic development and people's life. Propagating and introducing the Cybersecurity Law to students Photo 2 The exchanges will help students get closer to the law. using social networks to sabotage ideology and distort the lines, policies and laws of the Party and State; the information spread on social networks is difficult to verify, many false information affects the honor and reputation of individuals and organizations; appeared of many trends that go against the national cultural tradition on social networks. The situation of exposing, leaking, stealing, buying and selling personal information to fraudulently appropriate property... is complicated in the ""cyber"" space. Propagating and introducing the Cybersecurity Law to students Photo 3 Students are excited about the law propaganda session derived from practice Through the CATP propaganda session, the Organizing Committee hopes to equip students with the most basic knowledge of the Law on Cybersecurity; guide to safe, civilized and lawful use of social networks and how to secure personal information on the Internet. In addition to direct propaganda, CATP also distributed leaflets with 4 propaganda contents to the students. Interspersed in the propaganda sections, Lieutenant Than Van Giap spent most of his time discussing with students about the issue of individual Internet use, thereby drawing out problems and ways to deal with them. situations on social media."	
The Law on Cybersecurity will take effect from January 1, 2019. Accordingly, the Law stipulates 5 major policies of the State in the field of cybersecurity, including: 1. Prioritizing cybersecurity protection in national defense, security, socio-economic development, science and technology and foreign affairs. 2. Building a healthy cyberspace that does not cause harm to national security, social order and safety, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals. 3. Prioritize resources to build a specialized force for network security protection; improve the capacity of the network security force and organizations and individuals participating in the protection of network security; prioritize investment in research and development of science and technology to protect network security. 4. To encourage and create conditions for organizations and individuals to participate in the protection of network security and handling of threats to network security; research and develop technologies, products, services and applications to protect network security; coordinate with authorities in protecting network security. 5. Strengthening international cooperation on cybersecurity. As for the policy on international cooperation in cyber security, the Law has dedicated Article 7 to this issue. Accordingly, international cooperation on cybersecurity is carried out on the principles of respect for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-interference in each other's internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit. Contents of international cooperation on cybersecurity include: Research and analysis of cybersecurity trends; Formulate mechanisms and policies to promote cooperation between Vietnamese organizations and individuals, foreign organizations and individuals, and international organizations engaged in cybersecurity activities; Sharing information, experience, training support, equipment, technology to protect network security; Preventing and combating cybercrime, acts of infringing upon network security, preventing threats to network security. Besides, consulting, training and developing human resources for cybersecurity; organize international conferences, seminars and forums on cybersecurity; signing and implementing international treaties and agreements on cybersecurity; implementation of international cooperation programs and projects on network security; other international cooperation activities on cybersecurity. The Ministry of Public Security is responsible to the Government for presiding over and coordinating the implementation of international cooperation in cybersecurity, except for international cooperation activities of the Ministry of National Defense. The Ministry of National Defense is responsible to the Government for international cooperation in cybersecurity within its management. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for coordinating with the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of National Defense in international cooperation on cybersecurity. The case of international cooperation on cybersecurity involves the responsibilities of many ministries and branches decided by the Government. International cooperation on cybersecurity of other ministries, branches and localities must have written opinions of the Ministry of Public Security before implementation, except for international cooperation activities of the Ministry of National Defense.	
This is a very important law, related to the country's territorial sovereignty, defense and security. Therefore, although the draft committee has submitted to the National Assembly since the previous session and is expected to be approved at this 5th session, through discussion, many delegates are still wondering about the deadline for investors. land lease. Therefore, the National Assembly decided to postpone the voting time on this law to the 6th session (October 2018) in order to have more time to study and improve after listening and screening comments and requests. hopes and contributions of all classes of people. However, taking advantage of the lack of information and the gullibility and gullibility of some people, hostile forces deliberately falsified discussions and debates at the National Assembly to provoke public opinion. , internal division. They even instigated protests, attacked functional forces, burned public vehicles, destroyed offices of agencies and authorities in Binh Thuan, Binh Duong, and Ho Chi Minh City. Patriotism must be properly expressed! The extremists blocked National Highway 1A through Phan Ri - Tuy Phong City - Binh Thuan, causing congestion for many hours on June 10 (Photo tuoitre.vn) The bad guys took full advantage of social networks, in the name of kindness. patriotic, patriotic, released a series of articles that distort, distort the truth, confuse black and white, right and wrong. So who is behind the benefits when the peaceful life of the people is turned upside down, the social order is affected by the extreme and unconscious actions that happened in some localities recently? In fact, it is not difficult to point out and name those who are afraid of the light of the sun, hiding in the dark doing such evil and cunning things. For the people of Vietnam, in the era of integration and development, between the black and white information matrix, real and fake, mixed good and bad, multi-dimensional like today, equipping yourself with a solid life , enough alertness to analyze and consider right and wrong before acting is absolutely necessary. Patriotism must be properly expressed! The headquarters of the Department of Planning and Investment of Binh Thuan province was vandalized by extremists on the night of June 10. (Photo: BT/tuoitre.vn) True patriotism has no place for extremism or extremism. Patriotism must be expressed in the right sense, at the right time, in the right place! Recent events remind us of Uncle Ho's teaching: Everything must depend on the people, understand the people's hearts, listen to the people's opinions, tell the people to understand and make them believe. In the immediate future, the media and socio-political organizations need to step up propaganda work, by all means to help people understand the true nature of the problem, see the need to issue drafts. legislation that the National Assembly is preparing and will present to the next session; organize talks and dialogues so that people of all classes, public figures and intellectuals can express their views and express their responsibilities to the Fatherland in the most constructive way, contributing to the completion of the Party and State together with the Party and State. improve institutions and policies. On the other hand, more than ever, we all need to be very alert and aware of the evil and infamous plots and tricks of the bad guys and reactionaries, especially in the current period. It should be known that they act intentionally, with a clear purpose, well prepared with the very effective help of the media and social networks. Be always alert so that your patriotism is not taken advantage of, misplaced. Each of us joins hands, contributing to building a strong, lasting country, a democratic, civilized, peace-loving, friendship-loving country in the eyes of friends from all over the world.	
"On the afternoon of April 27, in Hanoi, General To Lam, Minister of Public Security received Mr. Gunnar Wiegand, Director General in charge of Asia and the Pacific of the European External Relations Service (EEAS), who is currently on a visit. , working in Vietnam. Also attending were Ambassador Giorgio Aliberti, Head of the Delegation of the European Union (EU) to Vietnam. Speaking at the meeting, Minister To Lam emphasized that over the past time, the cooperation relationship between Vietnam and the European Union has grown more and more widely in various fields, especially since the two sides implemented the Agreement on Economic Cooperation and Development. Vietnam-EU comprehensive partnership and partnership in 2016 and the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA) from August 2021. This Agreement has made Vietnam a leading trading partner of the European Union in ASEAN and one of the Asian countries with which the EU has cooperative relations in all fields, including security cooperation and cooperation. law enforcement. Minister To Lam stated that in the field of cybersecurity, the Ministry of Public Security of Vietnam and the European Union have closely cooperated and regularly coordinated to organize seminars, trainings, online meetings, consultations and exchange of information. change expertise. The Minister affirmed that the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security recognizes and appreciates the EU's support and active cooperation, dialogue, and experience in building and enforcing cybersecurity laws. According to Minister To Lam, in the process of developing the Cybersecurity Law and decrees, the EU has supported the sharing of practical experience and legal knowledge on personal data protection for the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security for reference. . This is an effective and practical way of cooperation that the two sides need to continue to implement. Minister To Lam emphasized that strict control of activities in cyberspace is to ensure national security and interests, and many countries have issued similar legal documents as Vietnam. [Vietnam and the United States strengthen cooperation in crime prevention] Minister To Lam suggested that in the coming time, the European Union would continue to share experiences on ensuring network security for information infrastructure. key information, experience in cross-border data management, data protection mechanisms in a number of important areas; strengthen discussions, share views, participate in the development and completion of the national legal framework on cyber security, the issue of national sovereignty in cyberspace, cyberwar; introduce and transfer technologies, equipment and tools to support the work of ensuring network security, preventing and combating cybercrime and crimes using high technology. Regarding the ""Project on Strengthening Security Cooperation with Asia and in Asia"" (ESIWA) initiated by the European Union to promote security and defense cooperation with 6 countries in the region from 2020-2024, Minister To Lam emphasized that the Ministry of Public Security highly appreciates the results of sustainable development projects within the framework of the Multi-Annual Support Program for the period 2014-2020 funded by the EU. The project has actively contributed to the economic construction and development of Vietnam, bringing the ""Comprehensive Cooperation Partnership"" between Vietnam and the EU more and more into reality. The Vietnamese and EU Public Security Departments are in a joint effort, providing security with the image of the two Ministers of Public Security To Lam and Mr. Gunnar Wiegand. (Photo: Pham Kien/VNA) For the ESIWA project, the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security acknowledged the European Union's request to strengthen cooperation in the fields of cybersecurity, maritime security, and terrorism prevention and control. father, crisis management. Minister To Lam suggested discussing in detail to propose practical activities to meet the needs of the parties. Sincerely thank Minister To Lam for taking the time to meet, Mr. Gunnar Wiegand emphasized, the cooperation relationship between the EU and Vietnam is developing not only in economy, trade and investment but also political cooperation, diplomacy and security are strategic factors. With responsibility in his working position, the General Director affirmed that he would continue to be a bridge, striving to bring the friendship and cooperation between the EU and Vietnam to be constantly consolidated and developed to new heights."	
"On May 28, the Ministry of Information and Communications sent an official dispatch to the People's Committees of provinces and centrally-run cities on strengthening the management and handling of violating information on social networks. Accordingly, through the State management of online information, the Ministry of Information and Communications has found that recently, there has been a phenomenon where some subjects have taken advantage of the features of social networks such as broadcasting. online, share pictures, video clips, exchange in groups... to post content that violates the law, which mainly offends the honor and dignity of other organizations and individuals; using offensive language, violating fine customs and traditions, spreading fake news, false news, advertising, providing illegal services, etc., causing irritation in public opinion, affecting social order and safety. festival. live stream to promote publicity, other people's violations of security law with his image strengthen scanning and timely detection of illegal content in cyberspace, especially social networks, proactively handle violators strictly. Previously, there were many cases of violations that were strictly handled such as YouTube channel Hoang Anh - Timmy, channel Hung Vlog, channel Tho Nguyen ... At the same time, the ministry also asked Google to close many other Youtube channels with infringing content. In this regard, lawyer Nguyen Duc Hung - Deputy Head of Litigation Department, TGS Law Firm - (Hanoi Bar Association) said, ""Live stream"" is a term talking about direct transmission over the network. Internet content, data in the form of images and sounds are recorded to the recipient at the same time. However, many people take advantage of this to post on social networks words that affect the honor and dignity of others. If left unchecked, users may inadvertently take actions that exceed ethical and legal limits. In fact, there are many livestream contents that clearly show a lack of restraint and disrespect for differences in culture, religion, perception... Therefore, the Ministry of Information and Communications It is necessary and timely to issue Official Dispatch No. 1800/BTTTT-PTTH&TTĐT on strengthening the management and handling of violating information on social networks to the People's Committees of provinces and centrally-run cities. The official dispatch shows the attention, close monitoring and timely handling of relevant information by the authorities in the management of information, especially information, on digital platforms. At the same time, it is also a warning to some subjects who intend to take advantage of technology to commit illegal acts, including acts of offending the honor and dignity of other organizations and individuals. According to lawyer Hung, taking advantage of livestream to post on social networks words that affect the honor and dignity of others is one of the violations of the 2018 Cybersecurity Law. Other people violating security laws in the image of 2 Lawyer Nguyen Duc Hung - Deputy Head of Litigation Department, TGS Law Firm Specifically, Clause 3, Article 16 of the Law on Cybersecurity 2018 stipulates that information in cyberspace can be humiliating and slanderous content includes “seriously insulting the honor, reputation and dignity of others” and “fabricated and untrue information infringing upon honor, reputation, dignity or causing damage to the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals”. Accordingly, the act of posting offensive information to individuals or organizations on social networks can be administratively sanctioned up to 20 million VND according to point a, clause 1 of Article 101, and at the same time removing the violating information. 15/2020/ND-CP on penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions. In addition, violators must suspend or suspend activities of establishing, providing and using telecommunications networks, the Internet, manufacturing and using radio transmitters and receivers in accordance with the law. the law; delete, access and delete illegal or untrue information in cyberspace; Blocking and restricting the operation of the information system; suspend, temporarily suspend or request to stop the operation of the information system, revoke the domain name in accordance with the law. In order to protect their legitimate rights and interests, lawyer Nguyen Duc Hung said that individuals and organizations whose honor, reputation and dignity have been violated can initiate civil lawsuits demanding an apology, improvement, and make compensation for damage or denounce criminal acts to the investigating police agency against individuals and organizations that give false information, seriously offend their honor, reputation and dignity similarly as cases do not take place in cyberspace. Affected individuals and organizations also need to pay attention as soon as the incident takes place, it is necessary to keep the images, information, and video clips of violations ... as evidence and make a statement when necessary. to take actions to protect their legitimate rights and interests in accordance with law."	
"Although Vietnam is nearly 8,000 km from the Russian-Ukrainian war zone, with the ""shooting"" in cyberspace, many businesses in Vietnam are still ""infested"". However, experts say that this is the best reagent to measure the ""resistance"" of Vietnam's cyber security... At the end of February 2022, when Russia had military operations in Ukraine, many attacks occurred. The internet also flooded this country. Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov later tweeted that Ukraine is creating an army of technology and will continue to fight on the cyber front. Next is a series of warnings about network security, such as: Germany's cybersecurity agency (BSI) warns users who are using Kaspersky products and services (Russia) at risk of becoming victims. of cyber attack; Anonymous hacker group claimed to have disabled the operation of many Russian Government websites and then Russian hackers ""counterattacked"", knocking down Anonymous's website; then the US put Russian security company Kaspersky on the list of security threats; or Ukraine recruited more than 200 technology firms, 300,000 hackers to ""fight"" with Russia... EXISTING RISK OF NETWORK HACKS According to Mr. Ngo Tuan Anh, Vice Chairman of Vietnam Information Security Association (VNISA), Vice President Chairman of Bkav Technology Group, field conflicts associated with cyber warfare as mentioned above are not a new phenomenon. Cyber ​​attacks have existed for all users, from individuals, organizations to each country. Vietnam, of course, is no exception. Typically, in 2007 when tensions between Russia and Estonia broke out with Estonia removing the monuments to the Red Army of the Soviet Union, a series of Estonian websites were hacked shortly after. In 2008, a similar situation happened when Russia and Georgia had a conflict. Or like in 2009, when tensions between North Korea and South Korea and the US were raised, it was also the time when the conflict happened. The largest-scale cyber attack in a millennium, shutting down all US and Korean government websites for 2 weeks straight. “The current trend is very clear, which is that in parallel with conflicts on the ground, there will be conflicts in cyberspace. Therefore, most countries in the world have established cyber warfare units to defend as well as attack in the event of a future conflict,"" Anh said. In Vietnam, thanks to the stable state, there is no geopolitical conflict with other countries, so the risk of actual war or cyber war with other countries is low. It must be emphasized, however, that cyberwars often have no borders. Therefore, it will happen that the attack occurs somewhere like in Russia - Ukraine can completely affect Vietnam. Sharing the fact, Mr. Truong Duc Luong, Chairman of Vietnam Cybersecurity Joint Stock Company (VSEC), said that recently the company has received a few requests for support from Vietnamese businesses for malicious codes. blackmail. It is worth mentioning that these malicious codes have the same origin as the malicious code that attacked the systems of Ukrainian businesses when the conflict between this country and Russia occurred. “The systems that are attacked, whether Ukrainian or Russian, are systems that Vietnamese businesses are also using. Meanwhile, when attacks are carried out on a large scale, it is possible for Vietnam's system to be affected, ""said Luong. In a survey in 2021 conducted by Bkav, the strong security loss for users in Vietnam has reached 1 billion USD - the highest level ever. Or another Bkav statistic shows that in Vietnam, on average, about 30 to 50 websites have their content changed as well as controlled every day, including many websites of the Government and other important agencies. important as financial companies, banks... This shows that cyber attacks exist for all users, from individuals, organizations to each country. Vietnam, of course, is no exception. VIETNAM'S ""RESISTANCE"" IS GOOD? According to Mr. Nguyen Thanh Dat, Deputy General Director of Vietnam Cybersecurity Technology Joint Stock Company (VNCS), despite facing great challenges, this is also the best reagent to measure Vietnam's ""resistance"" for cyber security. “All networking needs have a desire to ensure network security. But the important thing here is that the number of people participating in the cybersecurity team is still lacking. This means that the resistance to cybersecurity issues must be urgently supplemented.” Mr. Ngo Tuan Anh. It must be said that compared to 5 years ago, this ""resistance"" of Vietnam shows a huge difference. In particular, the attacks are handled in a short time, on a narrow scale, not to spread on a large scale. According to the Global Cybersecurity Index 2020 on the Global Cybersecurity Index, Vietnam ranks 25th out of 194 countries in the world. In addition, the ""resistance"" is further strengthened when the Vietnamese are showing their abilityforce in network security. In the rankings or in the cybersecurity departments of leading companies in the world, Vietnamese people appear. “This is a special thing, not all countries have it. Even domestic experts often discover serious vulnerabilities in popular software and applications in the world. That clearly shows the capacity of the Vietnamese people,"" said Mr. Dat. However, Mr. Dat also noted that Vietnam has many good experts, but basically it still lacks to be able to cover and support all businesses before attacks. With the same opinion, Mr. Tuan Anh said that now all sectors and fields have a need for Internet connection. For example, traffic has ride-hailing applications, logistics applications, transportation... Even many key power transmission systems need control over the network. In addition, in terms of state management, the Government also has regulations to promote the environment for cybersecurity companies to develop such as the Law on Cybersecurity, the Law on Cyberinformation Security. Accordingly, the Government also has specific documents including Directive 14/CT-TTg issued in 2018 requiring all state agencies to equip anti-malware software; or Directive 14/CT-TTg in 2019 requires all units and agencies to deploy and apply network security monitoring systems… “All network connection needs have the desire to ensure network security. But the important thing here is that the number of people participating in the cybersecurity team is still lacking. This means that resistance to cybersecurity issues must be urgently supplemented, ""said Tuan Anh. Therefore, Mr. Tuan Anh said that in order to build good resources, businesses in the industry need to increase the level of remuneration for experts. Because network security is a very specific branch in the field of information technology in general. Simple to understand, there are regulations, there is a need but there must be supervision and when implementing, it must be done with a plan and seriously. “When businesses outside the industry implement to ensure network information security, they create a market. It is that market that helps build ready-made cybersecurity resources. When the resources are ready, then assuming we have hundreds of cybersecurity companies, each with hundreds or thousands of people, we will form a large cybersecurity team. In peacetime, this force will serve production and business activities. Unfortunately, when an unforeseen situation occurs, Vietnam will also immediately have a reserve team to confidently protect national sovereignty in cyberspace, ""said Tuan Anh."	
"The strong handling of violations in the digital space will make the network environment healthy, creating a safe digital platform for all people. * Closely monitoring and controlling information online, Senior Lieutenant Colonel Vu Van Nhiem, Deputy Head of the Long Khanh City Police, said that in the past time, there have been many violations in cyberspace, affecting the public activities of society. Faced with that fact, from a management perspective, the police agency has established opinion groups to promptly capture information, update and monitor the security field. The police force will catch those who commit violations such as: insulting, defaming the honor and dignity of others in cyberspace but in the area under their management to promptly handle them. In addition, the police force proactively grasped the situation of hostile forces using cyberspace to call for anti-Party and State attacks, smearing the honor and reputation of leaders at all levels. Deputy Director of the Department of Information and Communications GIANG THI THU Nga said that, in order to have a healthy cyberspace, besides management solutions, user consciousness plays an important role. In addition to complying with the Code of Conduct on the network environment issued by the Ministry of Information and Communications, network users need to strictly comply with the provisions of the Cybersecurity Law 2018, Decree 72/2013/ND-CP dated 15 July 2013 of the Government on management, provision and use of internet services and information on the network... On that basis, this force will advise the authorities to inspect, control and handle violations in cyberspace. Through websites, authorities can obtain information, thereby providing official information to counter false information and false claims. The authorities will redirect conflicting and untruthful information, giving official views for people to understand and grasp. It is necessary to make people understand that this information is not true, it is against the law. According to Colonel Nhiem, there are now legal regulations on the management and handling of violations in cyberspace such as the 2018 Cybersecurity Law. When violations are detected, they will be based on that to handle physical. According to local police, in order to prevent law violations in the digital space, police agencies will strengthen inspection and review to soon detect individuals and violators to strictly handle in order to educate people. , deterrence. At the same time, the propaganda and objection stage of the news agencies and the press is very important. Propaganda must make people see the harms and dangers of websites with malicious information, information that is only ""like sentences"", ""view sentences"". * Strengthening coordination in handling bad and toxic information According to the Provincial People's Procuracy, from the perspective of the agency that supervises judicial activities, the Provincial People's Procuracy directs professional departments and local People's Procuracy to actively coordinate closely and keep close contact with investigative agencies and related agencies in controlling, detecting and handling violations and infringing upon national security; cases of taking advantage of the internet to propagate and distort the lines and policies of the Party and the State, cases of interest to the public. In order to prevent and handle violations, especially violations in cyberspace, the procuracy has also coordinated with investigation agencies to promptly and lawfully handle them. Over the past time, the procuracies have coordinated with other departments, branches and localities to handle cases of infringing upon national security and cases of public interest. In addition, the procuracies will strengthen supervision and follow up on cases of abuse of democracy, human rights, freedom of belief and religion, etc. to perform acts of calling for and organizing protests. illegally, disrupting security, destroying property, propagating, distorting, causing insecurity and disorder. From a legal perspective, lawyer Tran Cao Dai Ky Quan (Provincial Bar Association) said that the law clearly stipulates the level of punishment for violations in the digital space. Specifically, in Article 101 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 of the Government on regulations on penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, and technology Information and electronic transactions stipulate a fine of between VND 10-20 million for acts of abusing social networks to perform one of the following acts: providing or sharing fake information, false information, distort, slander or offend the reputation of agencies or organizations, honor and dignity of individuals; providing and sharing information promoting customs, superstitions, superstitions, lewdness, debauchery, which are not in line with the nation's fine customs and traditions. However, according to lawyer Tran Cao Dai Ky Quan, in order to determine and define acts of violating fine traditions and customs, there are still many different interpretations of the extent to which it is difficult to handle. In addition, the level of handling of administrative violations is not commensurate with the level of violations and consequences caused to individuals and organizations being offended. Maybe the penalty is lower than the profit the violator earns, so they ignore it. In addition to administrative handling, violations of the law in the digital space may also be subject to severe criminal penalties. Article 331 of the 2015 Penal Code provides for the crime of abusing the rights of self-defencedue to democracy infringing upon the interests of the State, the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals as follows: those who take advantage of the rights to freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of belief and religion, freedom of assembly, association and other democratic freedoms that infringe upon the interests of the State and the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals shall be subject to warning or non-custodial reform for up to 3 years. or imprisonment from 6 months to 3 years. Committing the crime of adversely affecting social security, order and safety, the offenders shall be sentenced to between 2-7 years of imprisonment. If the relevant authorities cooperate well in strictly controlling and strictly handling illegal information online, it will make an important contribution to preventing violations in the digital space, limiting the serious consequences. unfortunately happened in the past."	
"Previously, according to statistics of the Department of Information Security (Ministry of Information and Communications), in 2015, the rate of domestic cybersecurity products reached only 5%, by 2019 it is 55% and so far, in just 1 year. , this rate has increased to 91%. At the Vietnam Information Security Day 2020 international conference and exhibition with the theme ""Cybersecurity and security Make in Vietnam - A key factor in national digital transformation"", Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung said. You know, very few countries in the world can do this. “This is the pride of Vietnam. The Information Security Association and Vietnamese cyber security enterprises should be very proud of this because you have done it yourself,"" the Minister said. According to the Commander of the Information & Communications Industry, the greatest movement in human history is the move from the real world to the virtual world, but all countries are worried about cyber security in the virtual world. Trust will become the deciding factor for the success of this move. Countries can only have this trust when the technology they use is open technology to be able to own the technology they use. Open technology will also help make the world peaceful because no country is a ""superpower"" in technology. The Minister also emphasized that Vietnam develops 5G technology based on the Open RAN open standard. Vietnam's 5G network will also use open source. This is advantageous for Vietnamese enterprises in cyber security. “Cybersecurity enterprises must work closely with ICT product and service developers from the outset so that ICT products, services and systems must be secured at the highest level. . We must build a core team of cybersecurity experts. Particularly in the field of cybersecurity, good experts and the industry are equally important,"" said Minister Nguyen Manh Hung. Enterprises providing cloud computing are announced to meet the criteria and technical criteria for e-government and e-government. Photo: VGP/Minh Son The minister cited that in addition to businesses, in addition to tools, excellent individuals are required. Because the tool only handles known vulnerabilities. Unknown vulnerabilities can only be handled by experts. For example, when the enemy launches a new virus, the existing tool cannot handle it. Only good experts can come up with a new ""vaccine"" to deal with. Any country with few good people, going to the market to ""vaccine"" will be in danger. The minister suggested, this team can be located in businesses, but when the country is in danger, it can be requisitioned. The Information Security Association and the Information Security Administration should consider linking this network. The Ministry of Information and Communications also encourages cyber security enterprises to have new approaches to technology and marketing, to soon popularize information security products and services to everyone and every organization. Because digital transformation is a universal and comprehensive work, digital applications will also have to be universal, so ensuring network safety and security must also be universal. At the same time, Vietnam also needs to participate and contribute more actively to international cybersecurity and safety activities. Especially activities initiated by the international telecommunications alliance, creating a safe, shared and intelligent Vietnamese cyberspace. Also at this event, another highlight was that the Organizing Committee announced cloud computing platforms owned by Vietnamese enterprises to meet the requirements of network information security for e-government/e-government. such as VNPT cloud, Viettel cloud, VNG cloud, Bizfly cloud and CMC cloud; awarded the Certificate of Merit from the Minister of Education and Training to the student teams that won the contest ""Students with information security ASEAN 2020"". On behalf of businesses providing cloud computing platforms, Mr. Vu Minh Tri, General Director of VNG Cloud, shared that when Vietnamese businesses transform digitally, most of them will have problems choosing services. Cloud services fully meet the needs of modern technology and comply with network information security as well as the Cybersecurity Law of Vietnam. The fact that suppliers are awarded the certificate of ownership to meet network information security requirements is one of the core factors to help businesses solve these urgent needs; at the same time, demonstrating the capacity of domestic cloud computing providers, ready to serve businesses, accompanying in the process of national digital transformation. Vietnam Information Security Day is the 13th annual event, chaired by the Vietnam Information Security Association (Vnisa), in collaboration with the Information Security Department, the Ministry of Information and Communications."	
"The two sanctioned cases are: Ms. Nguyen Thi Thuong (SN 1975) and Mr. Nguyen Chu Truyen (SN 1948), living in ward 1, Bao Loc city, Lam Dong province. The behavior of Ms. Thuong and Mr. Truyen violated the law specified at Point a, Clause 1, Article 101 of Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 of the Government on sanctioning of administrative violations. mainly in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology, network information security and electronic transactions. The Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control Department, Lam Dong Provincial Police Department has sanctioned administrative violations against Ms. Nguyen Thi Thuong (a fine of VND 10 million) and Mr. Nguyen Chu Truyen (a fine of 7 million VND) ,5 million). Previously, through the work of ensuring network security and from information from the people, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-tech Crime Prevention and Control, Lam Dong Police discovered that Ms. Thuong and Mr. Truyen were involved in providing , sharing information about the Covid-19 epidemic and Covid-19 vaccine on cyberspace (in the video called ""Where does the Voice of Truth come from? Live Sharing session - Voice of Truth Part 221"", publicly posted on the Youtube page ""Exorcise The Demons""), with the content that ""this Covid-19 epidemic is not a natural epidemic caused by the devil... The vaccination against Covid-19 is to bringing other pathogens into the body, decomposing the human genome… Covid-19 is not afraid of heat, not afraid of cold, and not afraid of fire, but afraid of water… therefore, having a “sacred source of water” is to cure Covid-19…”. The Department of Health of Lam Dong province confirmed that the above information is untrue and not in accordance with regulations on the work of the health sector on Covid-19 prevention and control. Notably, Nguyen Thi Thuong and Nguyen Chu Truyen are two key cases, establishing and operating the self-proclaimed ""Bao Loc Demon Exorcism"" group (address at 53/5 Ho Tung Mau, Ward 1, Bao Loc City). Lam Dong province) has taken advantage of religious activities to propagate superstitions, cure diseases by anti-scientific methods (e.g. exorcism, beatings, violence, etc.), angering public opinion, causing local insecurity. In addition, members of the group ""Exorcise Bao Loc"" also regularly post and distribute a lot of information and videos on social networks (Youtube, Facebook ...) to attract more people to join. At the meeting with the police, Ms. Thuong and Mr. Truyen presented: The above information was said by the two people themselves, according to the ""spiritual"" thought of the group ""Exorcist Bao Loc"", not related. with the authorities to verify the accuracy of the information, there is no scientific basis, official documents on the above contents. In the process of making the video, Ms. Thuong and Mr. Truyen had a discussion and agreement with many other people on how to organize, record videos, provide and share information content to post on the Internet for many others. know and watch the video. Particularly, Ms. Thuong has a stubborn attitude, not sincere in declaring; and Mr. Truyen was aware of his own violations of the law, sincerely repented and apologised. The police agency is continuing to collect information, consolidate documents and evidence about the participation of other cases in the video above to strictly handle according to the law. At the same time, in the coming time, they will coordinate with functional agencies to strictly handle other illegal acts of the group ""Exorcise Bao Loc""."	
The strategy sets specific targets by 2025 to maintain the 25th to 30th rank on the Cybersecurity and Safety Index as assessed by the International Telecommunication Union (GCI Index). Building a system of people's security posture in cyberspace capable of commanding, connecting, sharing information, receiving and early handling information harmful to national cyberspace from ministries, industries, localities, telecommunications businesses, Internet, digital content services. Forming forces to ensure network safety and security at ministries, branches, state agencies, socio-political organizations and state corporations and corporations; to ensure that each state agency, organization or enterprise has a division assigned to act as the focal point and take responsibility for the work of ensuring network safety and security. Encourage other businesses to have a unit to ensure network safety and security. Protecting the national cyber infrastructure, with a focus on the information system important to national security in accordance with the law on cyber security. Protecting information systems in 11 important areas should be prioritized to ensure network information security (according to Decision No. 632/QD-TTg dated May 10, 2017 of the Prime Minister). Funds for ensuring network safety and security must reach at least 10% of expenses for science and technology, digital transformation and application of information technology. 12 tasks and solutions The strategy sets out 12 tasks and solutions, including: 1- Strengthening the leadership role of the Party and the management of the State; 2- Completing the legal corridor; 3- Protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace; 4- Protecting digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital data and national cyber infrastructure; 5- Protecting information systems of Party and State agencies; 6- Protecting information systems of important areas that need to be prioritized to ensure information security; 7- Create digital trust, build an honest, civilized and healthy network environment and prevent and fight against law violations in cyberspace; 8- Owning and autonomously owning technologies, products and services capable of proactively responding to challenges from cyberspace; 9- Training and developing human resources; 10- Propagating, disseminating and raising awareness and skills on network safety and security; 11- Enhance national prestige and international cooperation; 12- Invest resources and secure funding for implementation. In which, the information system owner deploys a plan to ensure information security according to levels and a 4-layer protection model for information systems of important fields; Prioritize the use of Make in Vietnam network information security products and solutions in important national information systems. In addition, invest in raising awareness for relevant organizations and individuals about ensuring network information security for information systems in important fields. At least once a year, organize drills, instructions, inspection, response and response to information security incidents for important areas that need to be prioritized to ensure information security and important information systems. national importance. Developing emergency response teams of 11 important areas that need to be prioritized to ensure network information security (domain CERT) under the coordination of the Ministry of Information and Communications, participating in the Response Network national network information security incidents. Agencies in charge of network safety and security (Ministry of Public Security, Ministry of National Defense, Ministry of Information and Communications) share information about risks and risks of cyberinformation security for owners of information systems under their control. 11 important areas need to be prioritized to ensure network information security. Forming a model for all people to protect national security in cyberspace The Ministry of Public Security shall develop a mechanism, set up a hotline and a system to receive and process information about cybercriminals from cyberspace to the public. People promptly and directly report information and illegal acts in cyberspace to competent authorities. In addition, renovate the content, form and measures to build the movement of all people to protect national security in line with the reality of digital transformation. To promote the role of the people's security posture in cyberspace to form a model of the whole people to protect national security in cyberspace. Building a national early warning system to promptly detect, coordinate and respond to cyber security incidents; collect and share information on cyber security between the State and enterprises, in the country and in the world; building and forming a unified network security operating and monitoring platform. The Ministry of Information and Communications promotes the development of safe Internet applications (apps) to protect people in the network environment; developing applications (apps) to propagate, raise awareness and disseminate knowledge about information security to users; develop a platform to support child protection in the online environment; guide organizations and individuals to change their habits and behaviors in the network environment according to safety standards.	
"Speaking at the opening of the conference, Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan stated that the promulgation of the Law on Cybersecurity has contributed to improving the effectiveness of the protection of sovereignty, interests, national security, and legitimate rights and interests. of organizations and individuals participating in activities in cyberspace, building a healthy cyberspace environment, creating an equal environment in terms of obligations, responsibilities and interests between domestic and foreign enterprises. The implementation of the Law on Cybersecurity is one of the key tasks, deciding the success of network security protection. Practically protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace Photo 1 Colonel Do Anh Tuan, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security) gave a speech At the General Evaluation conference of the Organizing Committee, the writing contest ""Understanding the Law on Cybersecurity"" was organized early and seriously by the Hanoi Police Department in accordance with the direction of the Ministry of Public Security. The Organizing Committee of the CATP contest has implemented comprehensively and comprehensively the content and meaning of the contest to all units in the CATP; determined that this was an important political event for public servants to research, investigate and propagate widely among the people; raise awareness of the rule of law and the protection of the law. Practically protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace Photo 2 Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan, Deputy Director of CATP speaking at the conference Responding to the writing contest ""Understanding the Law on Cybersecurity"" , all CATP officers actively participated, researched, collected information and rich documents from many different sources, wrote articles to participate in the contest according to the set plan. After 2 months of launching, the units and police of districts, towns have selected and sent the best entries to the Organizing Committee of the CATP contest to participate in the preliminary round of the CATP level. Practically protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace Photo 3 Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan presents prizes to authors and groups of authors whose entries won first, second and third prizes In the contest, the Organizing Committee has selected 1 first prize, 1 second prize, 1 third prize and 7 consolation prizes for the participating authors and groups of authors. In which, Major Giap Thanh Thuy from the Department of Cybersecurity and high-tech crime prevention won the first prize. Speaking at the conference, Colonel Do Anh Tuan - Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention highly appreciated the organization of the writing contest ""Understanding the Law of Cybersecurity"" by CATP Ha. Interior; at the same time, it is recommended that civil servants working on cybersecurity in particular in CATP need to continue to actively grasp and firmly grasp the crime situation in cyberspace; then consult with leaders of the Ministry, CATP to do a good job of fighting this type of crime. ""The Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention is always ready to provide information, share professional knowledge, guidelines and regulations of the Law on Cybersecurity, Decree guiding implementation, circulars, etc. related professional measures; and hope that CATP will continue to pay close attention to and direct so that in the coming time, the work of ensuring network security and fighting against criminals using high technology in cyberspace achieves get more results,"" Colonel Do Anh Tuan stated. Practically protecting the legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace Photo 4 Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan awarded the Certificate of Merit from the Director of CATP to individuals with achievements in organizing the contest Conclusion of the Association At the request, Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan suggested that, to promote the results from this contest, the heads of the units should continue to pay attention to direct the officials to actively study and understand the Law on Cybersecurity and other legal documents. in order to raise understanding and sense of responsibility in observing and protecting national sovereignty, interests, and legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals in cyberspace. On behalf of the Party Committee - CATP Board of Directors, Major General Nguyen Anh Tuan assigned the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention to assume the prime responsibility for coordinating with the Advisory Department and advise the CATP Board of Directors to continue promoting propaganda, dissemination and in-depth training of legal documents related to the implementation of the Cybersecurity Law for CATP officers, especially police officers of district, town and district police units working as public employees. Network security assurance and high-tech crime prevention in CATP."	
Decree 53/2022/ND-CP detailing a number of articles of the Law on Cybersecurity has just been issued by the Government, stating that from October 1, it is required to delete information when there is a legal basis to determine that information is deleted. information on cyberspace with humiliating or slanderous content; infringing upon the economic management order; fabricated, untruthful, causing confusion among the people, causing serious damage to socio-economic activities to the extent that information must be deleted. From October 1, online information with content that is humiliating, slanderous, fabricated, or false will be removed. Article 19 of Decree 53/2022/ND-CP specifies the cases in which the application of measures to request the deletion of illegal or untrue information in cyberspace includes: From October 1, 2022: this information will be removed from the Internet When the information is determined by a competent authority to infringe upon national security or propagate against the State; inciting riots, disrupting security and disrupting public order; When there is a legal basis to determine that information has humiliating or slanderous content; infringing upon the economic management order; fabricating, falsely causing confusion among the people or causing serious damage to socio-economic activities to the extent that information must be deleted; Other information with the contents specified at Points c, dd, and e, Clause 1, Article 8 of the Law on Cybersecurity include: distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, sabotaging the great national unity bloc, insulting religion, gender discrimination, racism; Prostitution, social evils, human trafficking; posting lewd, depraved, criminal information; undermining the nation's fine customs and traditions, social morality and the health of the community; Instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. In addition, according to Decree 53/2022/ND-CP, the computer network transmitting state secrets must be physically separated from the computer network connected to the Internet. Specifically, computer networks of state agencies and political organizations at central and local levels must clearly identify important information and information network systems that need to be prioritized to ensure network security; Clearly stipulating prohibitions and principles on management, use and assurance of network security, an internal computer network that stores and transmits state secrets must be physically separated from the computer network. electronic devices and means connected to the Internet, other cases must comply with the provisions of law on protection of state secrets; Management, professional and technical processes in operation, use and assurance of network security for data and technical infrastructure, in which basic requirements for information system safety must be met. ; Decree No. 53/2022/ND-CP also stipulates the order and procedures for taking measures to request the deletion of illegal or untruthful information in cyberspace infringing upon national security and order. , social safety, lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control under the Ministry of Public Security, Heads of a competent agency of the Ministry of Information and Communications: Decide to apply measures to request the deletion of illegal information laws or false information in cyberspace infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals as prescribed; Send a written request to enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, services on the Internet, value-added services in cyberspace, and information system owners to delete illegal or false information. truth in cyberspace, infringing upon national security, social order and safety, and lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals as prescribed. Check the compliance with the measures taken by relevant entities as required. Exchange and share information on the implementation of this measure, except where the contents fall within the scope of state secrets or professional requirements of the Ministry of Public Security. The Cybersecurity Task Force of the Ministry of National Defense shall decide to apply the measure to request the deletion of illegal information or false information in cyberspace that infringes upon national security or military security against with military information systems.	
"On December 8, in Hanoi, the Ministry of Public Security coordinated with the National Political Publishing House Truth to organize a national scientific conference ""Ensuring national sovereignty in cyberspace."" At the seminar, Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Head of the Central Committee for Propaganda and Education Nguyen Trong Nghia affirmed that ensuring national sovereignty in cyberspace is protecting national sovereignty. The State has promulgated many guidelines and policies to ensure information safety and security, making an important contribution to protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace. with strategies such as the Strategy for Defense of the Fatherland in Cyberspace; the Strategy for the Protection of the National Border; the National Cyber ​​Security Strategy; the Law on Cyber ​​Security... The head of the Central Propaganda Department said that with speed At the current level of Internet development, in addition to the positive effects, hostile forces also take advantage of the applications of telecommunications networks and digital technology to propagate messages. g wrong and hostile ideology, aimed at dividing the great national unity bloc, and undermining the trust of cadres, party members and people in the Party, State and regime. A series of propaganda campaigns to destroy the ideological foundation of the Party, create internal divisions, incite riots, and disrupt security and order have taken place in recent years. Mr. Nguyen Trong Nghia said that non-traditional security issues, including cyber security and the task of ensuring national sovereignty in cyberspace, are of particular importance in the cause of building and protecting the Vietnamese Fatherland Front. Socialist Vietnam. Therefore, the Workshop has practical significance, contributing to clarifying the theoretical and practical basis of national sovereignty in cyberspace in the new situation mentioned in the Document of the 13th Party Congress; promote the role and coordination of central and local ministries, departments, branches, especially the police force in performing this important task. At the ceremony, the representative of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the head of the Central Committee for Propaganda and Agitation, delivered a speech. (Photo: Pham Kien/VNA) According to Director and Editor-in-Chief of the National Political Publishing House Pham Minh Tuan, the issue of national sovereignty in cyberspace in Vietnam in recent years is a relatively new issue. poses many challenges in the leadership, direction and management of the country. This is also the subject of many research works, the topic of scientific conferences at different levels, in many branches and fields, especially the public security sector. The workshop also clarified aspects of the issue of protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace, contributing to building a safe cyberspace in Vietnam; is an important basis for the country's socio-economic development and firmly protects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Socialist Vietnam Fatherland. [Challenges in fighting high-tech crimes] Associate Professor-Dr. Nguyen Van Thanh - Special Vice Chairman of the Central Theoretical Council, former Deputy Minister of Public Security, said that national sovereignty over the Cyberspace is the supreme, absolute, complete and separate right of the State to directly or indirectly manage and control by policies, laws and technological capabilities in accordance with international laws and regulations of the State. International law. In order to improve the effectiveness of state management of network safety and security and national network information, Associate Professor-Dr. Nguyen Van Thanh emphasized the need to build a healthy cyber environment; building a specialized force capable of, proactively dealing with all risks occurring in cyberspace; especially perfecting and improving the capacity to ensure network safety and security and national network information for agencies, departments, branches and localities... picture 3 Mr. Phan Dinh Trac, Politburo member, Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Head of the Central Committee for Internal Affairs delivered a speech. (Photo: Pham Kien/VNA) According to Politburo member, Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Head of the Central Committee for Internal Affairs Phan Dinh Trac, cyber security is a completely new, complex and sensitive field. In order for this work to be highly effective, after the workshop ends, the Ministry of Public Security should summarize and clearly identify advantages, difficulties and challenges with the protection of national sovereignty in cyberspace. From there, assign specific responsibilities to agencies, units and individuals to implement and apply the plan into practice. In particular, the head of the Central Committee for Internal Affairs emphasized that the core and specialized human resources in this field must be professional, professional and have a firm spirit to fulfill their tasks well in the coming time. At the ceremony, the ceremony was held in the space with the image of 4 Generals, Professor-Dr. To Lam, Politburo member, Minister of Public Security delivered the closing and closing remarks of the workshop. (Photo: Pham Kien/VNA) Concluding the seminar, General, Professor-Dr. To Lam, Politburo member, Minister of Public Security, said according to the report.According to the International Criminal Police Organization, crime using high technology ranks second in the most dangerous types of crimes, after terrorist crimes and 90% of traditional crimes have moved to the online environment or used the Internet. using high-tech equipment. Therefore, the issue of developing and mastering cyberspace has become one of the urgent tasks that many countries pay special attention to. Over the past time, Vietnam has been facing many new challenges from cyberspace, notably targeted cyber attacks on critical information infrastructure; forge websites and portals of state agencies, police forces, organizations and businesses to steal personal data, fraudulently appropriate property; creating trading platforms, applications, websites to make money taking advantage of e-commerce, investment, insurance business, gold, cryptocurrencies... Meanwhile, Vietnam is not fully autonomous at present. In terms of technology, many companies that provide user services or operate technology for Vietnam are controlled by foreign parties holding controlling shares, potentially posing risks to Vietnam's information security sovereignty. . In the coming time, to meet the increasing requirements of the task of ensuring national sovereignty in cyberspace, General To Lam asked the police force to continue to strengthen the implementation of solutions to ensure network security. and fight against crime in cyberspace; synchronously deploying solutions to ensure network security for information systems important for national security; detect, fight for early prevention of cyberattacks, cyber espionage, conspiracy and counter-destructive activities of hostile and reactionary forces online. In particular, the police force also needs to improve the quality of training in information technology and cyber security at training institutions of the industry, and at the same time promote cooperation with other countries, universities, advanced technology corporations in the world to absorb new technology and experience in ensuring network security to meet the requirements of the new situation./"	
Specifically, Article 26 of this Decree stipulates that data must be stored in Vietnam, including: Data about personal information of service users in Vietnam; Data generated by service users in Vietnam such as: Account name, usage time, credit card information, email address, last login and logout network address, phone number register; Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam such as: Friends, groups with which the user connects/interacts. Objects to store the above data include: Domestic enterprises; Foreign enterprises conducting business in Vietnam in one of the following fields: Telecommunications services; provide domain names; ecommerce; online payment; social networks and social media; The decree also stipulates the order and procedures for requesting data storage, and setting up branches or representative offices of foreign enterprises in Vietnam. Enterprises can decide on the form of data storage in Vietnam. The data retention period starts from the time the enterprise receives the data storage request to the end of the request, a minimum of 24 months. Representative office or branch in Vietnam starts from the time the enterprise receives the request to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam until the enterprise no longer operates in Vietnam or the specified service is no longer available. provided in Vietnam. System logs to serve the investigation and handling of violations of the law on cyber security specified at Point b, Clause 2, Article 26, Chapter IV of the Law on Cybersecurity (Law No. 24/2018/QH14, dated 12 June 2018) is stored for a minimum of 12 months. The Decree clearly stipulates that the Minister of Public Security shall issue a decision to request data storage, and to set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. The Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control (Ministry of Public Security) shall notify, guide, monitor, supervise and urge enterprises to comply with data storage requirements, and set up branches or offices. representative office in Vietnam; and at the same time notify relevant agencies to perform state management functions according to their competence. Within 12 months from the date the Minister of Public Security issues a decision, the enterprises specified at Point a, Clause 3, Article 26 of this Decree must complete data storage, set up a branch or representative office in Vietnam. Vietnam. Thus, the data storage, setting up a branch or representative office in Vietnam only applies to some enterprises that have activities such as collecting, exploiting, analyzing and processing data about information. personal data, service user relationship data, service user data in Vietnam, is not applicable to all businesses.	
"According to General Phong, in recent years and especially in 2018, activities of hostile forces and opposing organizations and individuals have complicated and escalated, openly intending to overthrow the government. .

""In the past, it was propaganda related to human rights and democracy, but now in cyberspace, hostile forces are expressing a very clear intention to overthrow the government..."", he said. .

Regarding methods and tricks, Mr. Phong said the forces are changing in the direction of being aggressive and reckless; combination of ideological sabotage, internal sabotage, inciting the tendency to secede from the Party and quit the Party in association with demonstrations, riots, terrorism, and assassination of cadres when conditions permit.
He said that cyberspace is the main environment for hostile forces to thoroughly take advantage of anti-sabotage, first of all to take advantage of social networking sites in combination with reactionary news stations outside, to use illegal targets. in the country to collect information, give interviews about our sensitive issues, take advantage of our shortcomings to distribute documents, videos...
Enemy forces create media campaigns to propagate destructive ideology, directly attack the leadership of the Party, the management of the State and the legal system of Vietnam; distorting and discrediting the leadership, openly expressing opposing views, inciting hatred, praising the old regime, exploiting people's pressing psychology, dividing people's lives...
Propaganda activities of hostile forces have impacted and promoted the situation of ""self-evolution"" and ""self-transformation"" within us becoming more and more complicated and serious. In many cases, cadres and party members responded to participate in rallies and demonstrations, causing insecurity and disorder, giving speeches and giving interviews to foreign media with bad content, responding to the movement to quit the Party...
Secondly, also through cyberspace, reactionary objects instruct how to make explosives and weapons, how to conduct terrorism, sabotage, disrupt security, demonstrate, and livestream sensitive cases. sentiments, gatherings for demonstrations, lawsuits... to call on the online community and political opportunists to comment, share, and create hot spots.
Thereby, in order to create in the eyes of the masses and the international community an unstable Vietnamese society, a divided state, a corrupt and bureaucratic public apparatus...
Third, they use the internet to call for and entice to gather forces to form reactionary groups.
In 2018, Ho Chi Minh City Police discovered and fought more than 10 secret groups with activities infringing on national security. Through struggles, the City Police were able to neutralize the rioting activity at the 2-9 event.
According to him, September 1 to 4 is the peak of anti-sabotage activities, mainly online manipulation. The groups gathered forces from all over and dispersed the area from Hanoi, Hue, Binh Thuan, and Ho Chi Minh City and considered this as a place to rally the opposing forces nationwide. ""Through detecting the struggle, we have destroyed and neutralized the riots that overthrow the government,"" Phong said.
On December 22, 2018, also through fighting with closed groups, the City Police promptly detected and mobilized forces to neutralize the protest plot. This closed group has about 80 members, each member interspersed with other closed groups. ""We neutralized the original small groups. Through the struggle, we obtained rudimentary weapons to attack the functional forces.""
Mr. Phong assessed that these are reactionary online organizations, operating methodically and sophisticatedly according to the following steps: First, monitor the reactions of social network participants who agree with the information. provoke, misrepresent them to post.
Then, actively connect with the object. At the beginning of the survey, the next step is to provoke and evaluate the resistance trend to create consensus in activities such as protesting or demanding multi-party, overthrowing the regime... and then admitting these members. When a certain trust is achieved, deploy some communication software such as Skype, Viber, Zalo ... instructions to create new accounts to continue to exchange or introduce to participate in closed groups to connect with other partners. other object.
When you have trust to a certain level, go offline and contact each other in reality and form a connection to fight back.
The actors involved are very diverse, mainly focusing on students, students, low-skilled workers and many people without stable jobs...
The Director of Ho Chi Minh City Police also affirmed that the fight against hostile objects in cyberspace is still difficult, but we do not have effective measures to prevent and thoroughly handle bad information. online, especially fabricated and distorted information, calling for incitement to protests, disrupting security and order. In our public opinion work, the communication approach is not enough, timely, and flexible, so we have not fully assessed the ideological developments of these target groups...
Mr. Phong said that there are 64 million internet users in Vietnam (ranked 13 in the world), this is a huge numbercreated a new online society in parallel with the real society. This society is not divided by borders. The members on the internet are not like the real people in the real society, which has a residential group and is managed by the government. On the network society, there is no organization that manages and interacts with each other freely.
Another problem is online rumors, Mr. Phong said rumors on social networks spread more terrible than real society in terms of speed and wide area.
“A one-shot rumor spreads very quickly. While real society has to whisper to each other. Virtual society also causes misunderstanding,” said Mr. Phong and said that in the online society is a fertile ground for ideological destruction as well as opposition activities.
General Le Dong Phong talks about the struggle in cyberspace photo 2
The delegates to the conference. Photo: TA LAM MY

Since then, Mr. Phong said that the City Police have come up with solutions, in which it is necessary to promote propaganda and raise awareness for party members and the people to clearly see the positive and negative sides of the internet. , improve the ability to identify and be immune to bad information online for themselves and the society.
Referring to a case of coercion in a locality in the city, Mr. Phong said: ""We handled the enforcement of illegal construction in just one locality, but a TV channel said the authorities took the land. of the people. If the Vietnamese community outside or a part of the people do not understand the nature of the matter, it will be distorted immediately and people will be dissatisfied. Therefore, it is very important to propagate so that the people have an official information so that they can be immune and be able to fight against distortions."" He said that the grassroots political system needs to be more closely related to the people, grasp the people's thoughts and aspirations in order to promptly solve the people's pressing aspirations.
For agencies and units doing propaganda work, Mr. Phong said that it is necessary to further promote the establishment of accounts on social networks to both grasp the situation and propagate against the allegations of the subjects. hostile and propagate our official information, ideological views.
Mr. Phong suggested that the Propaganda Department of the City Party Committee and the Department of Information and Communications continue to chair with departments and press agencies to provide orientation information, ensuring fast, accurate and timely information to Party cadres. members and people"	
"Along with that, threats from cyberspace are constantly increasing and changing rapidly, from cyberattacks to the distribution of false information. Governments around the world consider promulgating strategies and completing the legal framework on cyber security as one of their national policy priorities to create a healthy and equal environment for all organizations. , individuals participate in activities. Strengthening control of network security and social media activities in cyberspace has become a must-have trend to ensure a clean and safe environment in the world. Strengthening control of network security and social media activities in cyberspace has become a must-have trend to ensure a clean and safe environment in the world. Although the concept of cybersecurity in each country has a different scope, targeting different audiences, in general, cybersecurity strategies around the world share four similarities: First, strengthening coordination between governments at the policy and operational levels; Second, strengthen public-private cooperation. Cyberspace is largely controlled and operated by the private sector. Therefore, public-private partnerships (which may include business, civil society, the technology community, and academia) are needed to appropriately respond to threats against cyberspace; Third, strengthen international cooperation. Many countries have recognized the importance of international cooperation in cyberspace. In the era of globalization, a single country certainly cannot solve cybersecurity problems without international cooperation. However, international cooperation in this field has become difficult due to the security policies of countries regarding classified information on national security; And finally, the fundamental values ​​of the Internet, including privacy, freedom of expression and free exchange of information, are respected and highlighted in countries' cybersecurity strategies on the basis of ensure compliance with the law. Many countries have recognized the importance of international cooperation in cyberspace. (Source: Vietnam+) According to statistics of the United Nations (UN), 138 countries (including 95 developing countries) have enacted the Law on Cybersecurity. Although the names are different, the main content of this law in different countries is to improve the information security situation of businesses and public agencies, as well as better protect people in the online environment. Internet. The European Union (EU) is the first region in the world to have a strategy to ensure cyber security. The European Cybersecurity Strategy defines principles for cyberspace, including: ensuring the fundamental rights of citizens, the right to freedom of expression, the right to data and privacy; ensure Internet access; ensure democratic and effective multi-subject management; shared responsibility in enhancing network security. The EU pays great attention to ensuring the safety and stability of an open cyberspace, ensuring the basic rights and security of information and data of European users. The EU pays great attention to ensuring the safety and stability of an open cyberspace, ensuring the basic rights and security of information and data of European users, and tends to increase fines for the enterprises if they violate regulations on user data security. In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law to better protect citizens and businesses in the digital era. The document requires companies and federal agencies to have minimum cyber security standards and to be certified by the federal Bureau of Information Security (BSI). Companies must also notify the office of suspected cyberattacks on their systems. The law is relevant to sectors that are considered national “critical infrastructure”, such as transportation, healthcare, water, telecommunications providers, as well as financial companies and insurance. The law also includes specific provisions for Internet users, such as the prohibition of plotting to use violence to subvert national security, and the prohibition of instigating criminal acts. In addition, the new law forces telecommunications providers to warn customers when they are attacked by hackers, providers must store data about access history for up to 6 months for investigation. The EU pays great attention to ensuring the safety and stability of an open cyberspace, ensuring the basic rights and security of information and data of European users, and tends to increase fines for the enterprises if they violate regulations on user data security. In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law to better protect citizens and businesses in the digital era. The document requires companies and federal agencies to have minimum cyber security standards and to be certified by the federal Bureau of Information Security (BSI). Companies must also notify the office of suspected cyberattacks on their systems. This law is relevant to to sectors considered to be national “critical infrastructure”, such as transportation, healthcare, water, telecommunications providers, as well as finance and insurance companies. The law also includes specific provisions for Internet users, such as the prohibition of plotting to use violence to subvert national security, and the prohibition of instigating criminal acts. In addition, the new law forces telecommunications providers to warn customers when they are attacked by hackers, providers must store data about access history for up to 6 months for investigation. In July 2015, the German Parliament passed the Cybersecurity Law to better protect citizens and businesses in the digital era. (Source: Reuters) Regarding the operation of social networking sites, the law to eliminate hate speech on social networks came into force in Germany in 2017, and from 2018 officially affects major social networks in Germany with over 2 million users, such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. In order to avoid fines, sometimes up to 50 million euros, social networks must remove within 24 hours all postings deemed to contain hateful content, such as curses, incitements, acts of violence or propaganda for terrorism. The distribution of fake news, whether intentionally or by mistake, is within the scope of this law. For complex cases, social networks have up to 7 days to decide if a content is hateful, and the identity of the person who posted the hate speech must be made public. . The United States is considered to have the oldest and safest security system in the world, but also suffers from cyber attacks. Typically, the case caused a stir when hackers broke into the system of Equifax (one of the three largest credit agencies in the US) in July 2017, stealing personal data of 145 million people, of which including important information such as social security number … The United States is considered to have the oldest and safest security system in the world, but also suffers from cyber attacks. (Source: Rockwellcollins.com) Cybersecurity policy in the US has been around since 2013 and has been regularly adjusted since then. Even the regulations on cybersecurity are the fastest and most revised regulations in the US to suit the rapidly evolving cyber security situation. Recently, the federal government has also enacted laws with a number of new regulations on cybersecurity, and at the same time amending old regulations to ensure that network security is more secure and strict, such as: Law on Strengthening Cybersecurity; Federal Exchange Data Breach Notification Act; Amended National Cybersecurity Protection Act. In October 2015, the US Congress passed the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA) to create a solid defense system in cyberspace. In order to strengthen the management of social networks and users in the world's most populous country, China has applied measures to block popular global social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google, Instagram, etc. The most prominent are China's cybersecurity controls. Since December 2016, this Asian power has announced its first ""National Cybersecurity Strategy"", which affirms Beijing's position and policy in security and defense issues. developing cyberspace, stating the motto and 9 strategic tasks, including protecting cyberspace sovereignty; protect national security; protect critical information infrastructure; strengthen the building of network culture; attack cybercriminals and cyber-terrorists; perfecting the network management system; building a solid network security foundation; improve the ability to protect cyberspace and strengthen international cooperation in the field of cyberspace. In order to strengthen the management of social networks and users in the world's most populous country, China has taken measures to block popular global social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google, Instagram... and many more. Foreign websites, instead of domestic social networks such as Weibo, Baidu, WeChat... The country has also enacted Internet laws, technology filters, cyber police, requiring companies to provide The Internet removes harmful content on its own. China uses domestic social networks such as Weibo, Baidu, WeChat… (Source: Qz.com) China's National People's Congress has passed the Cybersecurity Law, which took effect on June 1, 2017, to strengthen cybersecurity management through measures such as banning the posting of content that ""harms the national honor."" "","" Causing social order ""..., and the most heavy is"" overthrow the socialist system "". Meanwhile, the Thai Government implemented a program to equip social network monitoring technology. Accordingly, the social network data analysis system will track and store all the data on social networks to analyze and monitor millions of people. Sanctions for violators have also been increased. People who are convicted of defaming or posting information that damage and threaten national security can sit in prison for up to 10 yearsalong with a maximum fine of 200,000 baht (about 6,000 USD). Under the revised Computer Crime Law, people found guilty of defaming or posting information that harms or threatens national security can face up to 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of 200,000 baht (about $6,000 USD). ). Government agencies also have the power to close websites that are found to be posting sensitive information. According to officials, the purpose of increased surveillance is to prevent bad information, disrupt social order and affect national security. It is estimated that Thailand currently has about 47 million Facebook users, 11 million Instagram users and 9 million Twitter users. So far, the government has spent the equivalent of $3.8 million on strengthening cyber surveillance technology measures. In mid-2018, Thai authorities also asked social networking sites such as Facebook and Youtube to block hundreds of accounts from posting information deemed ""affecting national security"". It can be seen that countries around the world have been focusing on building many legal ""shields"" to deal with the risks arising from the development of the Internet, especially social networks, especially information. bad, toxic, can cause disturbance to social order and security, even threaten national sovereignty and security. It is the strict regulations on network security management that countries are applying that have made an important contribution to protecting social network users in particular as well as ensuring a safe cyberspace."	
"The Law on Cybersecurity has a regulation that prohibits businesses doing business on digital platforms from exploiting customers' personal information, but it doesn't seem to be very effective. In recent days, every time she accesses the social network Facebook, Ms. Dieu Thuy (District 5, Ho Chi Minh City) encounters dozens of articles advertising massage chair products of all brands and prices. Frustrated, she had to hide most of the promotional posts on her Facebook wall as well as in the Messenger chat application. ""I only clicked on the search for massage chairs once to read information about the product, unexpectedly the social networks I use or even the YouTube channel immediately ran related product ads to reach The density of ads is too thick, which is boring, a lot of information about family and friends is pushed down, so I can't update it"" - Ms. Thuy said. Ms. Thuy is not the only user of social networking sites who have been exposed to ads based on information search history, personal habits... For several years now, social networking sites, especially Facebook , constantly creating favorable conditions for sellers to reach users in this way. ""Owners of sales Facebook pages only need to pay ads for this social network, so that their ads will be prioritized to appear more and reach potential customers. They hit the psychology of shoppers. The more they look, the more they approach the product they are interested in, the more they are excited, captivated by the offers and as a result have a very high purchase rate"" - an e-commerce expert looks at take. Personal information is still exploited on social networks - Photo 1. The personal information of social network users is still used for promotional activities of goods and services. Photo: ROYAL TRIAL Mr. Ngo Tran Vu, CEO of NTS Vietnam, a distributor of security firm Kaspersky Vietnam, said that through many queries, social networks often neither recognized nor completely denied it. accept that they exploit information and interests of users to sell ads. According to him, if merely exploiting information, updating habits ... for advertising purposes will not have too great an effect on users, but it does not exclude the case that hackers use that information to do bad things, causing harm. dangerous to the user. ""The platforms Facebook, Google, Gmail... all announce their own security for the system, so users can be somewhat assured. However, it is not possible to verify their security capabilities to what extent. Currently, using social networks is considered a free service, so the rights and rights of users are very limited.They can only protect themselves by restricting the sharing of related sensitive information. to individuals and families"" - Mr. Ngo Tran Vu stated the situation. Experts said that although the Cybersecurity Law prohibits businesses doing business on digital platforms from exploiting customers' personal information, controlling the activities of foreign platforms is not easy. Moreover, users themselves also have the need to use many features and utilities of digital platforms and are willing to accept some ""unpleasant"" points, so excessive interference will not be reasonable. Experts also recommend that users of the social network Facebook, if they do not want to access unnecessary ads, can use a number of ways to limit the appearance of ads when accessing, for example, setting ""restrict"" advertising"", restrict public information when surfing the web, remove personal information in the ""Your interests"" section.."	
Data about personal information of service users in Vietnam, Data created by service users in Vietnam, etc. must be stored in Vietnam. The Law on Cybersecurity 2018 stipulates that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the Internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam have activities of collecting, exploiting, analyzing, processing data about personal information, data about the relationship of service users, data created by service users in Vietnam must store this data in Vietnam for the time prescribed by law. Government regulations. To guide this content, the Government has just issued Decree 53/2022; which stipulates the types of data that must be stored in Vietnam, including: (i) Data about personal information of service users in Vietnam. (ii) Data created by service users in Vietnam: Service account name, service time, credit card information, email address, network address (IP) last login, logout, registered phone number associated with the account or data. (iii) Data on the relationship of service users in Vietnam: friends, groups with which the user connects or interacts. In particular, the form of data storage in Vietnam is decided by the enterprise. Businesses that must store data include domestic enterprises; foreign enterprises having business activities in Vietnam in one of the following fields: Telecommunications services; storing and sharing data in cyberspace; providing national or international domain names to service users in Vietnam; ecommerce; online payment; payment intermediary; transport connection services through cyberspace; social networks and social media… Decree 53/2022 officially takes effect from October 1, 2022	
"Quang Ninh Provincial Police said that the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention has just issued decisions to administratively sanction two subjects who took advantage of social networks to provide false information and insult the reputation of the force. Quang Ninh Provincial Police. The false information related to Colonel Dinh Van Doi continues to run the An Giang Provincial Police, has not been assigned to hold a position in the Quang Ninh Provincial Police. Specifically, young men N.T.K (born in 1990, residing in Hoang Que ward, Dong Trieu town, Quang Ninh province) and K.T.N (born in 1984, residing in Viet Hung ward, Ha Long city, Quang Ninh province) both was fined 7,500,000 VND for taking advantage of social networks to provide fabricated information, insulting the reputation of agencies and organizations, causing confusion among the people. [Ba Ria-Vung Tau: Arresting the person who posted false information online] Recently, information related to Colonel Dinh Van Place has always been of interest to the online community, in addition to positive comments. while some subjects took advantage of the incident to post and comment on untruthful content, causing bad public opinion in cyberspace. Specifically, on March 21, 2022, taking advantage of the fact that a number of facebook fanpages published articles with content about Colonel Dinh Van Doi continuing to run the An Giang Provincial Police, not yet assigned to hold the post. Quang Ninh Provincial Police Department, N.T.K used his personal facebook account to comment on fabricated content, causing confusion among people in the post of the facebook fanpage ""People of Quang Ninh."" On the same day, K.T.N used his personal facebook account to comment on untruthful content, insulting the reputation of the Quang Ninh Provincial Police force in the post of the facebook fanpage ""Quang Ninh News."" Through verification, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention invited N.T.K and K.T.N to work. At the police station, these two people admitted their violations, the content posted was fabricated and untrue information, causing confusion among the people, seriously affecting the reputation of the Colonel. Dinh Van Doi in particular and officers and soldiers of Quang Ninh Provincial Police in general."	
"That is the content clearly stated by the Ministry of Information and Communications in the report to the National Assembly Standing Committee. According to the assessment of the Ministry of Information and Communications, the current infringing content on the network is mainly web pages with international domain names, servers located abroad, cross-border supply into Vietnam, causing difficulties. for the management and handling of violations. When detecting violations, this case is often difficult to handle administratively because it is difficult to identify the identity of the violator. Foreign enterprises providing cross-border services have not actively cooperated with the Vietnamese Government to prevent and remove infringing content and provide relevant information about individuals providing illegal information. offense. Struggling with Facebook and Google to request the handling of fanpages, accounts, channels and videos that violate Vietnamese law is still facing many difficulties because Facebook and Google place the business's community policy above the legal regulations. Vietnamese law when considering and evaluating infringing content. In many cases, Facebook and Google refused to remove articles and content because they thought they did not violate the business's community policy - the Ministry of Information and Communications assessed. The ministry said it has stepped up the exchange, asking Facebook and Google to cooperate in preventing and removing false information that is contrary to the views and policies of the Party and State and solutions to direct and operate. of the Government, the Prime Minister. At the same time, it has established a focal point and a dedicated cooperation mechanism with Vietnam to discuss outstanding issues. In particular, there will be three main groups of issues: violations of content (including advertising), economic development and taxes; directing the synchronous implementation of measures to combat political security, economic and technical requirements to require Facebook and Google to strictly comply with the provisions of Vietnamese law, such as handling and blocking illegal content and advertising, opening representative offices and storing data. personal data in Vietnam according to the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity"". The Ministry of Information and Communications also said that to gradually handle the issue of spreading false information (fake news) on Facebook and YouTube platforms, contributing to limiting the fake fanpage of many agencies and organizations. As an individual on this social network, the Prime Minister has directed relevant ministries and sectors to develop a plan to block illegal transactional cash flows between Vietnamese users and cross-border service providers. world like Google, Facebook. Specifically, the ministry ""suggested Facebook to implement a quick blue tick for official fanpages of a number of agencies, organizations and individuals with aspirations and at the same time requested that Facebook only be allowed to establish official fanpage of a number of Party and State agencies and organizations with the consent of the Ministry of Information and Communications or the confirmation of that agency or organization."	
"The historian said he was one of 15 delegates who pressed the button to disapprove of the passage of the draft Cybersecurity Law. In the last working week of the 5th session, the National Assembly spends many working sessions for delegates to press the button to vote on approved Law projects and resolutions according to the schedule. Historian Duong Trung Quoc said that the above arrangement of time is a customary practice and as an individual, he has repeatedly spoken on the forum about the fact that the National Assembly should have a ""public button"" form. click"" of the delegate. VnExpress has an interview with Mr. Duong Trung around this issue. National Assembly member Duong Trung Quoc. Photo: Hoang Phong National Assembly member Duong Trung Quoc. Photo: Hoang Phong ""I'm always ready to make my decision public"" - Yesterday, June 12, the National Assembly passed a draft Law of interest to voters, the Law on Cybersecurity with 423 out of 466 delegates. present, press the button of approval (86.86%); 15 delegates disagreed; 28 delegates did not vote. So how did you press the button? - I was one of 15 people who voted against the draft Law on Cybersecurity. Why so? First of all, I welcome the Law to ensure security on the network environment, especially national security issues in the era of technological development, the network has become a modern living space. But through research, I found that the draft Law did not meet the expectations and requirements set forth. My decision is only in the minority, but with my perception, I think it is necessary to avoid risks. The Internet is a global environment and we are inheriting the technological achievements of mankind. The management and making of laws must be in line with reality, so that people can enjoy that achievement, because this content is associated with the very important rights of citizens as stipulated by the Constitution. Moreover, we must take appropriate steps to keep our commitments in the process of international integration. Every law has its life. Technology is evolving and changing day by day, hour by hour. Who knows in advance only a few years when technology changes, how will the authorities manage? Or then have to change the law? I understand the general spirit of the National Assembly deputies who want to ensure network security. But when people's intellectual level is higher and higher, the sense of participating in the network will also be better to promote the positive aspects. Don't approach the problem for the sake of some people doing wrong things in a way that affects everyone online. - This is the first time you publicize your button? - With any content, whether sensitive or not, if the press and voters ask, I am always ready to make my decision public in the parliament. In 2013, when the National Assembly voted to pass the Constitution (amendment), on the screen only two people abstained (did not vote). At that time, I was advocating to let people know my opinion, so when I pressed the button, I went out to share it with the press with the explanation that: ""First of all, I want to represent a section. people, but as in his speech when the National Assembly was about to vote on the (amended) Constitution, National Assembly Chairman Nguyen Sinh Hung said: In a section of the people and even some deputies there are another idea..."". At that time, although I did not vote on the draft Constitution (amended), I still agreed when the National Assembly passed a resolution to implement the Constitution. As a member of the editorial board, directly involved in the drafting process, I think this Constitution, if put into practice, will create many changes, because it contains progressive provisions. than if compared to the 1992 Constitution. In retrospect, who was the second person who abstained like me, at this point I do not know because this has not been made public. As a historian, I only recorded that when the National Assembly voted to approve the 2013 Constitution, there were two abstentions, one is me, and the other is who? In my opinion, if this is considered a public vote, the people must know the attitude of each delegate. If nearly 500 people with technological difficulties are displayed on the screen, the Secretariat of the meeting can print it out and provide it to the press and people. ""Press the button, there are only numbers and the general ratio"" - What prompted you to repeatedly ask the National Assembly to publicize the delegate's button? - The word ""push a button"" is used when the National Assembly applies technology, but it is still a form of public voting. I started to join Congress from XI, in 2002, at that time there was no button technology. Each delegate has a sign, with a code, if anyone agrees, raise it. That way of voting is rudimentary but very nice. When applying button technology, everyone liked it at first because it only took a split second to get the percentage of votes for, against, and abstentions displayed on the screen; which means more convenient, but I find that has lost its specificity. Press the button, there are only numbers and the general ratio. People are not allowed to know which delegates support, oppose or have no opinion on an issue that voters care about. On May 23, when discussing in the hall about the project of Law on special administrative and economic units,At Van Don, Bac Van Phong, Phu Quoc, I once again expressed my opinion that I hope the National Assembly has a form of announcing the decision of the delegate. - How do parliaments of different countries use voting? - I do not have the conditions to know all, but through visiting some countries, I see that they attach great importance to voting transparency. Voters of different countries not only monitor the general operation of the National Assembly, but more importantly, monitor the people they elect to see if they reflect their aspirations and will. The people must know clearly who votes for or against the important decisions of the country. The UK still holds the tradition for hundreds of years when voting is that those who agree go to the left door, those who disagree go to the right door. Each party has a notebook that clearly states each person. Any citizen or anyone who comes can see the notebooks to know at what time, how each parliamentarian has the attitude to the decision. - After many times the proposal has not come true, how do you continue to pursue this issue? - I will patiently raise my opinion and hope to be approved soon. Each person has different understanding, but the responsibilities of the elected representative are the same, each vote is equal, so delegates must know how to listen, have the ability to analyze and have the courage to decide. say what you think. In the case of the 2015 Penal Code, which was just passed by the National Assembly, its implementation had to be postponed due to many errors. There is a reason here is the Code with thousands of things that we have not fully understood in every corner of life, but as a delegate with one vote, I have to take responsibility for that. When I contacted voters, I admitted my mistake. In such a spirit, I think that the publicity of the button will contribute positively to parliamentary activities."	
According to the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity and related laws and documents, citizens using and expressing their right to freedom of expression online must comply with the Constitution and laws; ensure the interests of the State, the lawful rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals. * Personal information other than press information Just owning an electronic device (smartphone, laptop) with an internet connection, individuals have the right to freely communicate their information and opinions to others at any time. place, anytime. It is this convenience and utility that allows individuals to freely chat, transmit… all their problems, creative ideas, and thoughts on social networks (MXH). Lawyer Cao Son Ha from the Provincial Bar Association said that individuals' freedom of expression in cyberspace under the 2018 Cybersecurity Law is broader than an individual's freedom of expression in the press (according to the Law on Press and Publication). 2016). Because, expressing personal opinions in the media (print press, picture press, electronic newspaper - this type must be licensed and registered to operate under a very strict regulation) is always approved by these agencies. to verify and verify the legitimacy, constitutionality, objective truth, by a fairly professional, highly qualified and professional department, then allow publication and take responsibility before the law for publishing jobs. Meanwhile, to own one or more personal accounts in cyberspace, the registration procedure is very simple. Individuals can post and share information even without verification. Therefore, the accuracy of personal information in cyberspace is not high. For example, the Facebook account Lan Nguyen Van posted an article on the morning of 6-8 causing a stir about a person wearing clothes related to the field of burial and cremation carrying jars of lost ashes and delivering them in different areas. blockade epidemic prevention in Ho Chi Minh City. When the official press entered the verification, the matter was not quite as the article. There is practically no alley 42 Au Co as this Facebook post mentions. The urns mentioned in the article were delivered in many districts such as: Tan Binh, Tan Phu, 11, 6, not just P.Phu Trung, Tan Phu district as this account posted. The owner of this Facebook account also admitted to the press that he only sees and writes according to his feelings... * Not to humiliate or slander others The personal use of information on cyberspace has acts of humiliating and slandering people. otherwise prohibited by law. Those who commit violations shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively handled or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must compensate according to the provisions of law. Therefore, in Clause 3, Article 16 of the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, it is very clear that information on cyberspace with humiliating and slanderous content includes: seriously insulting honor, reputation, the dignity of others. Fabricated or untrue information infringes upon honor, reputation and dignity or causes damage to the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals. According to lawyer Cao Son Ha, freedom of speech does not mean that you like to express your views and opinions arbitrarily. Freedom of speech must be within the framework of the Constitution and laws. These limits are reflected in prohibited acts, administrative and criminal sanctions in the 2018 Law on Cybersecurity, the 2018 Law on Cyber ​​Information Security, the 2015 Penal Code, the Civil Code 2015… Specifically, the act of offending the dignity and reputation of others on Facebook is a violation of Point a, Clause 1, Article 101 of Decree 15/2020/ND-CP dated February 3, 2020 of the Government regulating Decree on sanctioning administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, information technology and electronic transactions (effective from April 15, 2020). This behavior is subject to a fine of 10-20 million dong and forced to remove infringing information. Regarding criminal liability, acts of infringing upon the dignity and reputation of others may be handled according to Article 155 (crime of humiliating others) and Article 156 (crime of slander) of the 2015 Penal Code if the give information from full 16 years old or older, have the capacity to take criminal responsibility. The use of social networks to seriously offend the dignity and honor or cause damage to the legitimate rights and interests of others is considered by the 2015 Penal Code as an aggravating circumstance of criminal responsibility for the crime of humiliating people. and may be sentenced to between 3 months and 2 years in prison.	
"According to the report on crime prevention and control in 2021, signed by General To Lam, Minister of Public Security, authorized by the Prime Minister, sent to the National Assembly, the situation of law violations in the field In the reporting period (October 1, 2020 - September 30, 2021), there were many complicated developments in the field of information technology and telecommunications networks. In particular, cyberattacks targeting state agencies have shown signs of increasing severity, with more than 2,500 cyberattacks, an increase of 10% compared to last year. The situation of illegally selling and sharing information and data of agencies, organizations and individuals online tends to increase; The issue of spreading unverified information by some ""celebrity"" on social networks creates complicated public opinion, the risk of causing instability in security and order. What does the Ministry of Public Security say before the rumor that 'Thuy Tien, Cong Vinh was arrested' is spreading? In addition, the situation of buying and selling personal information data, using software to appropriate bank accounts and credits on the internet, impersonating a network operator or authorities to cheat and appropriate property continues. increase. Gambling activities in cyberspace are complex in both size and diversity, especially betting activities when taking place in large-scale sports tournaments, with the number of detected cases increasing by over 36%. compared with the same period. In particular, the act of reporting untrue and unverified information in cyberspace has increased, negatively affecting the prevention and control of the Covid-19 epidemic. This report also said that many subjects have been found to set up illegal financial exchanges, call for investment in foreign exchange and virtual currency exchanges with promises of large profits or set up websites. for the purpose of deceiving, buying and selling anti-epidemic products. In particular, the Ho Chi Minh City Police and the Hanoi Police have dismantled 4 illegal virtual currency, gold and foreign currency exchanges (Rforex.com, Yaibroker, Vistraforex, Exwuiss) that can directly interfere with the system. system to appropriate investors' assets. Police in Hanoi discovered that the group set up more than 300 websites, made 40,000 transactions for scarce products during the epidemic such as hand sanitizer, medical masks with more than 7,000 victims in 50 US states, accounting for more than 7,000 victims in 50 US states. won $975,000. Notably, the Government said that from the beginning of February, the Prime Minister issued Directive No. 01/CT-TTg on a number of urgent measures to strengthen cybersecurity protection in the current situation; establish a National Steering Committee for Cybersecurity and Safety headed by the Prime Minister. Directing the Ministry of Public Security to continue to advise the Government to issue decrees to implement the Law on Cybersecurity... At the same time, request Facebook and Google to arrange 24/7 permanent staff in Vietnam, remove 621 accounts, articles, videos with illegal content, blocking access to 4,214 websites with servers located abroad that post bad and toxic information. Focus on fighting, clarifying and strictly handling violations (the number of new prosecutions increased by 88.82%); create a deterrent and warning effect for subjects showing signs and conditions of criminal activities."	
"Along with the benefits that the Internet brings, Vietnam has been facing great dangers from cyberspace, threatening national security and social order. Vietnam suffered many cyber attacks On September 10, in Hanoi, the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention (Ministry of Public Security) and Microsoft Corporation held a symposium on ""Security and Security"". , network information security - The key to ensuring stable operation and sustainable development for agencies, organizations and businesses"" in Vietnam. According to authorities, by the end of January 2020, Vietnam had 68.17 million Internet users (accounting for 70% of the population), including more than 60 million people using social networks on mobile devices. , the number of registered mobile subscribers is up to 143 million subscribers. According to the E-commerce Index 2020 (EBI) report of the Vietnam E-commerce Association (VECOM), the scale of e-commerce in 2019 reached about 11.5 billion USD; It is predicted that by the end of 2020 it will remain at over 30% and the e-commerce scale will exceed 15 billion USD, in the period 2015 - 2025 it will reach 29%, then the scale of Vietnam's e-commerce will reach the threshold. 43 billion USD and ranked third in ASEAN. According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, Deputy Director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention, besides the positive aspects, Vietnam has been dealing with unpredictable risks, challenges and dangers. from cyberspace, directly threatening national security and social order and safety. In 2019, Vietnam was the country with the highest rate of ransomware infection in the Asia-Pacific region. Vietnam also has the third highest rate of crypto-currency mining attacks in the region. The number of Drive-by attacks in Vietnam is also 2 times higher than the regional and global averages. This is a worrying reality for Vietnamese organizations and businesses, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, when every day about 60,000 targeted phishing messages are recorded. include malicious attachments or malicious URLs related to COVID-19. Attackers impersonate major agencies and organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Ministry of Health to infiltrate users' inboxes. . Criminal activities using high technology have increased in number, nature and severity with many new methods and tricks, directly affecting many areas of social life, posing many challenges. awareness for the prevention and struggle of functional forces. Currently, the Law on Cybersecurity has been popularized and thoroughly grasped throughout the country and is the legal basis for effective application in the fight against cybercrime and high-tech crime. Mr. Cuong said that under the Government Security Program (GSP), the Ministry of Public Security signed with Microsoft Corporation, over the past time, Microsoft Vietnam has actively shared data about cyberattack activities targeting the network system. information of 63 provinces and cities in Vietnam. In particular, the focus is on Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City which are the places where the country's highest number of malware infections are attacked; Currently, there are over 3.8 million IP addresses in Vietnam infected with dozens of lines of dangerous malware. Important data sources Talking about the initial results of the Government Security (GPS) cooperation program signed between the Ministry of Public Security and Microsoft Corporation in December 2019, the Department of Cyber ​​Security and Crime Prevention used On average, Microsoft provides the Department with about 3GB of data on malicious code activities as well as other security risks in Vietnam every day. Based on this data source, the Department conducted an analysis and showed that from March to August 2020, up to 4.2 million IP addresses in Vietnam were infected with malicious code and performed 7.8 billion times. connect up to 16.7 thousand source IP addresses of various types of malware. According to Colonel Nguyen Ngoc Cuong, Deputy Director of the Department of Cyber ​​Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention, Vietnam has been dealing with dangers and dangers posed by cyberspace. (Photo: Minh Son/Vietnam+) The report also details malware classification, infection status as well as changes in frequency scale, attack trends over time and provinces and localities of Vietnam. In particular, the Department's expert demonstrated a test on the GSP system of security risk analysis with a specific IP address of an enterprise, showing what types of malware this address is infected with, the frequency of outbound connections to the malware's source IP addresses, and attack behavior changes over time. According to the Vietnamese expert, the data from the GSP program has great potential to help Vietnam do better in cyber security. In which, helping to improve the defense capacity, understanding of security systems in Vietnam and assisting in warning of security risks and incidents for the public.Governments and businesses are just a few early applications. Mr. Pham The Truong, General Director of Microsoft Vietnam said: “The cybersecurity challenge has become a global issue, requiring the cooperation of many countries, organizations, and businesses. With community responsibility, Microsoft is willing to share and cooperate with Vietnam in improving security defense capacity so that Vietnam can digitize and promote the safe development of the industrial revolution 4.0. [Vietnam participates in Microsoft's Government Security program] Along with providing an assessment of the current state of cybersecurity in Vietnam, Microsoft also shared its approach as well as new solutions in the field of cybersecurity. security in the context of users and businesses increasingly using mobile applications, cloud computing solutions and outsourced applications. Prominent among these are new generation security solutions built on cloud computing, continuously aggregating and exploiting big data from various sources and applying artificial intelligence (AI). to shorten the analysis time for anomalous behavior and highly automate the implementation of response responses to minimize damage when there is a risk or security incident... ""Defend"" how? At the event, an expert from the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention recommended that agencies, organizations and businesses actively research and invest in technical infrastructure and solutions. appropriate technological measures, ensuring information safety and security, strengthening the ability to prevent and combat cyber attacks; raise awareness about information and data security for all officials, employees and users, especially the team working on information safety and security. Organizations need to develop and implement a strategy to ensure information security and safety in a methodical and appropriate manner; formulating and implementing specific and clear regulations and policies to ensure safety, information security, and network security; proactively review and strictly control the installation of equipment, use of legal and copyrighted software, and meet the standards of information security and safety. Actively cooperate and coordinate with the Ministry of Public Security's specialized force in cybersecurity protection and high-tech crime prevention and control in ensuring information security, preventing cyber attacks, and responding to countermeasures. Troubleshooting network security incidents, combating crimes using high technology. Along with that, the units must strictly comply with the provisions of the law on assurance of safety, information security, and network security, especially the provisions of the Law on Cybersecurity and the guiding documents on the implementation of the law on security. onion; actively research related contents to clearly see their obligations and responsibilities and related subjects, thereby contributing to ensuring security, information safety, network security, towards building a safe environment. Safe and healthy internet."	
"Accompanying the rapid digital transformation is the increasing insecurity and information security incidents. This requires financial institutions to always be vigilant, vigilant and take precautions related to information system security. In the past time, there have been many cyber security-related attacks such as selling billions of personal data, hackers (hackers) attacking the server systems of some credit institutions to steal money in their accounts. customer account. Notably, a unit operating in the field of cybersecurity has recently issued a warning about a phishing attack impersonating 27 familiar financial institutions in Vietnam. According to this warning, the criminal group used SMS, Telegram, WhatsApp and fake Facebook pages of legitimate Vietnamese financial companies. Nam to entice victims to scam sites. Phishing messages are masquerading as official messages from banks, exchanges or e-commerce companies. Popular form is the form of fake messages (SMS) informing users that they have won and need to log in to the bank's page to receive gifts, to seduce users. The trick of using shortened links (URLs) makes it impossible for the average user to distinguish the legitimacy of the URL. When clicking on the URLs, the user is redirected to a fake website with the logos of 27 reputable banks and financial institutions, either as a standalone page or as a drop-down option, so that the victim can can choose the bank they are registered with. When a user selects a bank from the list, it will be redirected to another scam page, just like the legitimate bank's page. After entering the username and password, the victim is taken to the next fake website asking for a one-time password (OTP). After the victim “logs in” to the fake website, they will receive a message saying “the transaction is still being processed”. This method of duplication allows cybercriminals to steal funds from victims' accounts and collect large amounts of personal data (names, addresses, national or citizen identification numbers, phone numbers, date of birth and occupation). This information can be bought and sold in the cybercriminal community or sold to the bad guys for further attacks on the victim. According to cybersecurity experts, phishing attacks in the financial and banking industry are one of the typical trends of cybercrime this year. In order to strengthen defenses and prevent all risks related to this type of dangerous crime, financial institutions must always be vigilant and implement information security control measures; regularly hold personalized security training sessions for employees; install the latest updates and patches for all software in use; do not install programs from unknown sources; perform regular security reviews of the organization's information technology infrastructure.... The financial sector will always be the target of cyberattacks by credit institutions which are inherently financial transaction and storage channels, which requires banks and financial service providers to take great responsibility for system security and protect their customers. The financial industry is facing an increasing risk of cyberattacks Photo 2 Sharing about this issue, a representative of FE CREDIT financial company said that the security of the financial - banking industry is a problem. top concern. Technology capacity will be an important factor to ensure the survival of enterprises in the current context. “Owning a large number of customers requires us to regularly review and improve network infrastructure, deploy network security solutions, monitor access, and provide awareness training for both customers. employees, and standardize incident management processes to protect customer networks and data from high-tech criminals' targets for compromise, abuse, or theft."" - shared representative. In the coming time, promoting digital transformation and information security and network security will become one of the key tasks of the entire financial - banking industry to promote the development of digital banking and financial markets. healthy and transparent."	
"Therefore, it is necessary to strictly punish violators, and at the same time raise awareness of social media users so that each citizen when participating in the network environment is more responsible for his or her speech. Recently, in the face of the complicated situation of the Covid-19 epidemic, many individuals posted fake information about this disease. Many cases have been punished by the authorities for spreading fake news. As of February 24, Thanh Hoa Provincial Police have detected and handled 85 cases of spreading false information about the Covid-19 epidemic, of which 11 cases were administratively handled with the amount of 121.5 USD. million dong. Need to be responsible for speech on social networks Social networks attract a large number of users. In addition to fake news about the Covid-19 epidemic, there are also many fake news on social networks related to all aspects of social life. For example, on February 24, Ho Chi Minh City's Department of Information and Communications (TT & TT) fined Ms. Luong Hoang Anh 12.5 million dong for posting false information about Ly Son garlic being contaminated with pesticides on Facebook. Information shared on social networks spreads very quickly, attracting hundreds of thousands of followers, shares and comments, causing a great impact on social life, especially false information. truth, false information. The network environment is a virtual space, but speaking in cyberspace is not virtual, because behind it are real people. According to experts, the state of fake news on social networks is often spread by two main groups: First, those who have limited knowledge of the law, think that social media is a virtual environment, so they can freely speak without having to responsible; therefore, reporting unverified to polish the name, profiteering. The second group is those who intentionally give information to confuse others in order to sabotage and destabilize social order. To prevent fake news, the first factor is the legal corridor. Regarding management, according to Article 8, Point d, the Law on Cybersecurity prohibits the following acts: ""False information causes confusion among people, causes damage to socio-economic activities, and causes difficulties. difficult for the operation of state agencies or official duty performers, infringing upon the lawful rights and interests of other organizations and individuals"". In Article 9, the Law on Cybersecurity also clearly stipulates: “Whoever commits acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be disciplined, administratively handled or If they are examined for penal liability, if they cause damage, they must pay compensation in accordance with the provisions of law. In addition to the Law on Cybersecurity, recently, the Government also issued Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP stipulating penalties for administrative violations in the fields of post, telecommunications, radio frequencies, and technology. information and electronic transactions. According to Article 101, Decree No. 15/2020/ND-CP stipulating that acts of abusing social networks to provide and share fake information, untruthful information, distort or slander are regulated with a fine of 10 -20 million dong. Strictly handling violators is an effective measure to prevent and deter other cases. At the same time, it is necessary to propagate to the people to raise awareness about cyber security. Commenting on the reality of fake news on social networks, Minister of Information and Communications Nguyen Manh Hung said that bad and toxic information on social networks is a global problem, not only our country but the whole world is facing. “A day, on average there are 100 million information, so we cannot use people but must apply science and technology, machines and technology to evaluate. Currently, the Ministry of Information and Communications has a system center that reads, evaluates and classifies 100 million news stories per day,"" said Minister Nguyen Manh Hung. In the face of the situation that many social media users spread false information about the Covid-19 epidemic, the Ministry of Information and Communications has asked its affiliated units to actively fight and negotiate with Facebook and Google to prevent and remove the videos. clips, false information about the epidemic, fake accounts reporting untrue news. Minister Nguyen Manh Hung also requested businesses providing telecommunications, internet and television services via the internet, businesses providing digital technology platforms with a large number of users in Vietnam, such as Zalo, Lotus, Coccoc… needs to be proactive and creative in spreading official information from authorities to users through technology platforms. In addition to strict sanctions, the fundamental solution to repel fake news is that social media users should equip themselves with knowledge and skills to live in cyberspace, build a civilized culture in behavior on social networks. Each person participating in cyberspace needs to show their responsibility to society by the information they post; It is necessary to think that such information has a negative or positive impact on the community, along with that, do not arbitrarily share unverified information that affects society, even national security."	
"In our country, hostile and reactionary forces have been taking full advantage of cyberspace to oppose the revolutionary cause of the Party and people. Therefore, raising awareness of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace is very important and urgent... Benefits and challenges Cyberspace has brought many positive values ​​to the development of the Internet. development of society, organizations and individuals. Along with the continuous development of internet services, 4G, 5G network technologies, social networking sites, IoT devices, cloud computing services... more multidimensional, reflecting more vividly and instantaneously with all aspects of life and social relationships. It is this that has turned cyberspace into a new social space where people can perform their social behaviors, such as communication, creativity, labor, production, consumption, etc. learning and entertainment, not limited by geography, language, space and time. The benefits of cyberspace are also known as the digital foundation in the national digital transformation program, digital government development strategies, digital economy and digital society. According to the Prime Minister's Decision No. 749/QD-TTg dated June 3, 2020 approving the ""National Digital Transformation Program to 2025, with a vision to 2030"", cyberspace is the place where activities take place. activities of agencies, organizations, enterprises and people in the digital environment; The communication between the government and the people and businesses basically takes place in cyberspace. At that time, cyberspace really becomes a space with endless digital resources, affecting all economic, political, social and especially human fields. Along with great benefits, cyberspace is creating risks and challenges for national security, human security and social order and safety. These are the challenges of cyber intelligence, cyber espionage, cyber terrorism, the threat of a cyber war and a host of other threats. If the national cyberspace is not protected, State secrets will be exposed; important national infrastructure such as aviation information system, national electricity grid, road traffic, and important industrial facilities will be destroyed; The financial system, banking and many other sectors are stalled or dysfunctional. In the past time, hostile forces have taken advantage of the social network environment to distort the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation; enticing and inciting disgruntled elements, gathering forces, and establishing opposing organizations; spreading documents, calling for marches and demonstrations, causing instability in political security, social order and safety. In addition, cyberspace is also used to cause damage to property, spirit, health, and even human life. There are many online scams, people who post comments, comments, share, even make up false stories and clips that adversely affect the health, honor and reputation of the organization. organizations and individuals. Not only that, cyberspace is becoming and is the environment in a new form of warfare, which is cyber warfare. It is creating the risks of war without gun smoke, without front lines, without borders between countries with the participation of all actors in the network environment including: State-funded hacker groups support; professional, non-governmental hacker groups; Script Kiddies groups (amateur hacker)... According to the leader of the Ministry of Information and Communications (in his speech at the international conference and exhibition on Vietnam's cyber security - Vietnam Security Summit 2022 taking place on 23rd day of the 23rd. -6-2022): Cybercriminals tend to use new, modern technologies with many complex features, making the detection and handling of the consequences of attacks more complicated, taking a lot of time. more time. Malware attacks combined with artificial intelligence technology or using technology to simulate user behavior, to attack critical infrastructures, supply chains, factories, etc. challenges in the process of building digital government, digital economy and digital society. Stepping up propaganda and clearly defining responsibilities, the Resolution of the 13th Party Congress determined that: Ensuring network safety and security is one of the important tasks in the Strategy to protect the Fatherland in the new situation, the Strategy protect national security; especially in the context that our country is accelerating the process of digital transformation, building e-government, towards digital government, digital economy, digital society and digital citizens in the development orientation of the country in the next period. period 2021-2030. Over the past time, our Party and State have always paid close attention to and directed closely to the protection of network safety and security, and have issued many resolutions, directives and legal documents, such as: Decision No. 29-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on the Strategy to defend the Fatherland in cyberspace, Resolution No. 30-NQ/TW dated July 25, 2018 of the Politburo on Strategy national network security, Law on Information Security n network in 2015, Law on Cybersecurity in 2018, Resolution No. 22/NQ-CP dated October 18, 2019 of the Government on the Government's Action Program to implement Resolution 30 of the Politburo... Building... Building and protecting the cyber environment is the responsibility of every cadre, party member and people of all walks of life in order to create a healthy, safe and sustainable virtual society on the internet, reflecting boldly the cultural identity of the people. nationalization. In order to improve understanding of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace, all levels and sectors need to do well in educating and raising awareness about the responsibility of building and protecting national sovereignty in cyberspace. . In which, focusing on propagating, disseminating and educating the Penal Code (2015) related to the field of information technology and telecommunications networks; Law on Cyberinformation Security (2015); Law on Cybersecurity (2018)... Preventing, preventing, responding to and overcoming consequences of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism and preventing and combating the risk of cyberwar. Condemn acts of using cyberspace for propaganda against the State; organizing, operating, colluding, instigating, bribing, deceiving, enticing, training and training people against the State; distorting history, denying revolutionary achievements, undermining the great unity bloc of the whole nation, insulting religion, discriminating against gender and racism; false information; prostitution, social evils; vandalizing fine customs and traditions; instigating, enticing or inciting others to commit crimes. Struggling with the manifestations and actions of cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, cyber espionage, cybercriminals; taking advantage of or abusing network security protection activities to infringe upon the sovereignty, interests, national security, social order and safety, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals, or for personal gain. ... Early education institutions put the national cyber security assurance educational content into the teaching curricula suitable to the discipline and grade level. Cyberattack activities are diverse and sophisticated, officials, party members and the masses need to be alert to the tricks of hostile forces. Currently, they are plotting to attack the websites of the Government, agencies, units, schools and businesses; fake websites to cheat and steal personal data; malicious code attack; attack anonymously with malicious software;... Hostile forces will take advantage of personal blogs to entice and incite disgruntled elements, gather forces, and establish transnational opposition organizations. sculpting the Party's Platform, guidelines, viewpoints and ideological foundation... All levels of Party committees, authorities, mass organizations, officials and party members need to raise their sense of responsibility for building and protecting cyberspace. Raise the political awareness, responsibility and civic duty for the task of building and protecting the national cyberspace. Comply with the provisions of the law on network security protection; promptly provide information related to network security, threats to network security and other infringing acts, and comply with requests and instructions of competent state management agencies. Each individual needs to study and make good use of technical measures to ensure information security such as protecting personal accounts with 2-factor password authentication; make a habit of scanning for viruses before opening files; perform backup with important data;... Users should be wary of strange websites, unknown emails and suspicious links; update the browser version, operating system and programs used; Use reputable and regularly updated anti-virus software, do not turn off the anti-virus program at all times. Along with that, the agencies in charge of cybersecurity provide full information on development trends and threats from cyberspace; measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks. Enterprises providing services in cyberspace have increased warnings about the possibility of network insecurity provided by their units and guided on preventive measures; develop plans to deal with network security incidents; coordinate and create conditions for specialized forces in cybersecurity protection activities"	
"Cybersecurity was among the topics discussed at a meeting between Vietnam's PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc and a Facebook executive Thursday. Facebook's vice president of public policy for the Asia-Pacific, Simon Milner, expressed his company’s readiness to support Vietnam in areas relevant to the digital era. Facebook will discuss with Vietnam issues that many other countries also face, especially cybersecurity, and the two sides agreed to work on remedial measures for possible issues, according to the meeting on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum on ASEAN in Hanoi. Milner said cybersecurity is an important factor in ensuring businesses' operations and also contributes to improving the investment and business environment. Vietnams PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc (R) meets with Facebooks representative Simon Milner in Hanoi on Thursday. Photo by Vietnam Government Portal Vietnam's PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc (R) meets Facebook's representative Simon Milner in Hanoi Thursday. Photo by Vietnam Government Portal Phuc told him Facebook needs to be responsible for ensuring security and protecting personal information related to over 60 million accounts in Vietnam. The prime minister also voiced support for Facebook's plan to contribute to building a digital ecosystem in Vietnam, saying it is Vietnam's ""close friend"" with a very high rate of users in the country. So Facebook needs to have regular exchanges with Vietnamese agencies and work together with them to overcome shortcomings to better contribute to Vietnam's development, which in turn would create more opportunities for Facebook to continue growing, he said. Phuc wanted the company to work closely especially with the Ministry of Information and Communications to remove “toxic” information that could damage national security, social order, safety, and the peaceful lives of people. He said Vietnam always creates favorable conditions for foreign companies, including Facebook, to do business smoothly. Speaking at the meeting, acting information minister Nguyen Manh Hung emphasized that Facebook, and all other companies doing business in the country must comply with Vietnamese laws to ensure a secure, healthy cyberspace. He also called on Facebook as a successful business in Vietnam to reinvest a percentage of its revenue here in research and development and soon open a representative office in the country."	
"Police forces nationwide are stepping up efforts to combat hi-tech crimes which have become more popular and more sophisticated. Vietnam News Agency reported that the number of hi-tech crimes has increased in recent years. During the COVID-19 pandemic, when social distancing is applied in many areas and more people work from home, this type of crime has been more active, especially in gambling, fraud and property appropriation. The Ministry of Public Security is acting fast to fight cyber security crimes, using high technology themselves. Local divisions of cybersecurity and high-tech crime prevention and control have been established in many provinces and cities to step up that effort. Although many divisions are newly established, they have seen positive results. The Division of Cyber Security and High-Tech Crime Prevention and Control in the central province of Quang Nam has recently cracked down on an illegal ring of online gamblers in the form of online football betting. This was the first victory of the division after only two days of establishment. Captain Nguyen Trung Duc, deputy head of economic security department, Phu Tho province’s police, who cracked down on trillion-dong online gambling case of Phan Sao Nam and Nguyen Van Duong in 2018, said: “The key to combating cybercrimes is to collect online evidence. By understanding how criminals commit the crime, it is possible to collect evidence and fight effectively. “In the modern age of technology, the methods and tricks of the criminals are unpredictable. The work pressure is so much heavier. ""Meanwhile, the masterminds and leaders who use high technology to commit crimes are all knowledgeable about informatics and always look for ways to eradicate evidence. Finding clues is extremely difficult.” Major General Nguyen Minh Chinh, director of the Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention under Ministry of Public Security, said the cyber security situation has seen many new and more complicated developments that threaten information security around the world, especially in the ASEAN region. ASEAN’s high percentage of internet users (about 75 per cent of the population, equivalent to 480 million people) is being targeted by cyber attacks. Cybercriminals with multiple purposes are also targeting critical information infrastructures of government agencies, businesses, organisations and people. New methods and tricks appeared in cyberattacks, thoroughly exploiting security holes of online meeting applications, spreading malicious codes, causing many serious consequences, he said. According to the public security ministry, in 2020, more than 400 pages of State agencies out of more than 5,000 websites and portals in Vietnam were hacked. Cybercriminals also committed transnational law violations to defraud and appropriate properties. The main trick is to impersonate law enforcement agencies to commit fraud online, by phone or through multi-level business methods. Major General Chinh said the ministry had sped up co-operation with law enforcement agencies of ASEAN countries and many other countries around the world to investigate, verify and handle many cases related to the use of drugs and high technology. However, Vietnam and a number of ASEAN countries are lacking a legal framework in cybersecurity and have not kept pace with the rapid changes of the world’s cyberspace, he said. “Cybercrime is becoming more sophisticated and complex. At ASEAN regional level, there is still no common legal document governing cooperation,” he said. Some ASEAN countries have focused on building their own laws. But each country's legal opinion still has certain differences. Being behind with technology is also a barrier, he said. The Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security has developed a comprehensive plan to raise awareness and capacity of all relevant stakeholders in cybersecurity. The Ministry of Public Security believes that, in addition to the efforts of police, it is necessary to further promote public-private cooperation between law enforcement agencies on cybersecurity and technology corporations. State management agencies need to strengthen dialogue and update cybersecurity policies for the business community, he said./."	
"Vietnam issued a Code of Conduct for social media behavior Thursday, encouraging users to use real names and requesting platforms to cooperate with authorities to remove illegal content. The code, issued by the Ministry of Information and Communications, states that social media service providers must respect users' rights to privacy, publicize their methods for finding content that break the law, including copyright laws, and must cooperate with authorities in removing such content. Social media platforms should also devise ways to protect the vulnerable segments of society, including the poor, ethnic minority communities, children and the disabled, the code says. Users and organizations are encouraged to use their real names on social media platforms, share content that is legitimate, abide by ""moral and cultural standards"" and not share hate speech or discriminatory content. Users must not post law-breaking content and content that harm a person's dignity and rights, share fake news and content that affect social order, the code says. The ministry said social media users are encouraged to share content that reflects Vietnam's national and cultural values, as well as positive content including people doing good things. The code asks government officials to provide feedback on opinions expressed on social media platforms. The Vietnamese parliament had in 2018 passed a cybersecurity law that bans internet users from organizing, encouraging or training other people for anti-state purposes. They are also not allowed to distort history, negate the nation’s revolutionary achievements, undermine national solidarity, offend religions and discriminate on the basis of gender and race. The law, which took effect in 2019, also requires foreign social media businesses to open representative offices in Vietnam and store their Vietnamese users' data on Vietnamese territory. Despite concerns and criticisms of the law expressed in several quarters, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stated that it serves to protect national security and order while not impeding any international pact."	
"A look back at the headline-grabbing demonstrations in Vietnam over the special economic zones bill. In the ongoing aftermath of demonstrations that rocked the country last weekend, hundreds of people have been detained and dozens now face criminal charges. Authorities, who expressed shock at some of the violence and vandalism that happened in some places, allege some of it was instigated and even pre-planned. The demonstrations first broke out last Sunday with thousands taking to the streets across the country, protesting draft laws on special economic zones (SEZs) and cybersecurity. They gathered in Hanoi, Da Nang, Ho Chi Minh City as well as other provinces including Khanh Hoa, Binh Thuan, Dong Nai with banners and signs calling for the draft law on SEZs, and to a lesser extent, the cybersecurity bill, to be scrapped. In several places, the protests turned violent, as people started blocking roads and clashing with the police. In Binh Thuan, where the protest became the most intense, hundreds stormed the office of the provincial People's Committee, pulled down the main gate, vandalized the building, burnt down vehicles and threw rocks at the police. The violent demonstration also continued on Monday when protesters vandalized and looted the local fire police's headquarters, blocked National Highway 1 and threw rocks, bricks and petrol bombs at the police. The causes The demonstrations are reported to have been triggered primarily by a particular provision in the draft law on SEZs that would allow foreign investors to lease land for 99 years, while the maximum period under the current Land Law is 70 years. On a number of banners and signs displayed at the demonstrations, many protesters claimed that the provision would allow foreign countries, particularly China, to undermine Vietnam's national security and sovereignty, a concern dismissed by the government. A smaller number of protesters also called for the draft law on cybersecurity to be dropped. The bill has caused controversy as it would give the government greater control over online information and users' data. The bill could also make it difficult for foreign digital companies to provide their online services in Vietnam as they would be required to store Vietnamese users' data in Vietnam. The law was passed on Tuesday last week and a senior security official said that Facebook and Google are okay with it. Lieutenant-general Hoang Phuoc Thuan, director of the ministry’s Cybersecurity Department, told VnExpress: ""They said that this law was appropriate and that they will research to modify their companies’ strategies accordingly."" Incited actions However, Vietnamese police have said that not all protests were sparked by genuine grievances. They say that they have uncovered evidence that the protests were anti-state actions incited by organizations based in other countries using false, distorted information on the draft laws. Under police questioning, some protesters said they were told by strangers that the government was ""selling land to China"" or that the police were ""beating the people."" Some said they were also given money, food and drink to participate in the protests. Police in Binh Thuan say the rocks, bricks and petrol bombs used by protesters were prepared beforehand, while police in Ho Chi Minh City have arrested three people who allegedly dressed up as police officers and were planning to have themselves filmed beating protesters. Aftermath A day after the protests broke out, the National Assembly, Vietnam's top legislative body, approved a government request to have the SEZ bill deferred. The draft law on cybersecurity, however, was passed after over 86 percent of the MPs voted in favor. Commenting on the demonstrations, Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan, chairwoman of the National Assembly, praised the people's patriotism and concern over matters of national importance. She also condemned those who ""abused democracy, distorted the truth to incite violence and disrupt public order and security, heavily affecting the people's daily lives and the operations of businesses and organizations."" Since the demonstrations, police have detained and fined hundreds of protesters, and at least 17 people in Binh Thuan, 18 in Dong Nai and 7 in Ho Chi Minh City are facing criminal charges for disrupting public order and inciting violence. As Vietnam has delayed passing the Law on Demonstration several times, acts to incite public protests are currently deemed illegal. The latest series of protests however have prompted some members of parliament to resume calls for the law, which was last discussed but then shelved in 2016, to finally be issued. Vietnam saw major protests against China's installing an oil rig within Vietnam's exclusive economic zone in 2014, and over Taiwanese steel plant Formosa discharging toxic waste into the central coast in 2016. In both instances, several people were arrested and sent to jail under charges of instigating protests with false or distorted information."	
"Vietnam's government has told Facebook to identify users behind its Hanoi and HCMC accounts and remove fake news ads. It has also asked Facebook to allow only authentic accounts to produce live-streaming content. The Ministry of Information and Communications recently reported to the National Assembly that it has insisted on Facebook revealing Hanoi and HCMC account users identity after the social networking site did not remove some content at the request of the ministry. Facebook claimed that the content did not violate its policies. The ministry has also asked Facebook to remove advertisements that distribute fake news on political matters at the request of the Vietnamese government. The report submitted to the Vietnamese parliament alleges that Facebook and other social networking sites are making increasing profits from Vietnam, and a large part of this comes from illegal advertising on videos and websites, the ministry said. Vietnam has been tightening conditions on Facebook and Google since earlier this year, when its Cybersecurity Law took effect. The law bans internet users from conducting anti-state activities. A report by the Authority of Broadcasting and Electronic Information (ABEI) in June said Google has removed almost 8,000 toxic videos from YouTube at Vietnam’s request. However, 55,000 videos of this kind still remain on the world’s largest video platform, it added. The report also said that Facebook has scrapped 200 websites with anti-governmental content, 208 fake accounts, and 2,444 websites that promoted sales of illegal products and services. Information Minister Nguyen Manh Hung has called for creating a home-grown social media network and search engine to replace Facebook and Google. Hung told National Assembly delegates on Thursday that Vietnamese social networks have about 65 million accounts, and this figure grew by 30 percent last year. Foreign social networks have about 90 million Vietnamese users. ""With the current growth rate, Vietnamese and foreign social networks will have the same number of users by 2021 at the latest."""	
Foreign enterprises doing business in Vietnam must store key internet data on servers located within the country, according to a new government decree. Effective from October 1, Decree No.53/2022/ND-CP is expected to help tighten cybersecurity for cross-border online services, where violations have been frequent. Domestic enterprises operating in telecommunication and internet services are also subject to the new regulation, including those in telecommunications services, telecoms-based application services, internet services, online content services, and value-added telecoms services. Offshore enterprises must process regulated data, including in telecommunications, cloud storage, online payments, social networks, and e-commerce. A number of large international tech companies fall into this category, such as Google, Facebook, YouTube, TikTok, Shopee, and Lazada. The list of data that must be stored in Vietnam can be divided into three main groups. The first is data on the personal information of service users in Vietnam. The second includes data generated by service users in Vietnam, such as account name for use of services, duration of use, credit card information, email address, phone numbers, and IP address. The third is data on the relationships of service users in Vietnam, including friends or groups with whom the users connect and interact. In terms of timeline, offshore enterprises need to begin the data storing process upon receiving a written decision from the Minister of Public Security. Enterprises then have 12 months as of the decision’s issuance date to complete the storage of data, with a minimum storage time of 24 months. According to Tin Nguyen, founder and CEO of Polaris Infosec, the decree means the government is taking the position they deem best to protect the community and data of Vietnamese nationals. “While this may be difficult for international companies because of concerns of data oversight, these requirements are not much different than those that exist in other parts of the world,” Nguyen said. “Members of the European Union, for example, have the General Data Protection Regulations that they must abide by, and anyone that does business with the EU is also subject to them.” Manh Hung Tran, head of IPTech Practice at Baker McKenzie Vietnam, noted that Decree 53 also sets out numerous legal bases for local authorities to take action on illegal activities in cyberspace, such as issuing takedown requests, requesting data disclosure, or terminating operations of information systems. “Therefore, it would be reasonable to expect that Vietnamese authorities are more active in their cybersecurity enforcement efforts once Decree 53 takes effect,” Tran said. The government received feedback from businesses when drafting the decree, and will continue to do so to refine it, according to one governmental source. A number of businesses and associations in the process have submitted their input, including the American Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam and the Asia Internet Coalition. According to Bruno Sivanandan, co-chair of the European Chamber of Commerce’s Digital Sector Committee, parts of the decree are not sufficiently clear for companies to adapt their compliance programmes and factor compliance requirements into their business strategies. “For foreign companies, there is a list of specific services that have to store a list of specific data locally. But there are cases where it’s hard to tell if a company falls into these categories,” Sivanandan said. “Especially for new-concept companies, like embedded finance, it’s hard for businesses to assess themselves. Going forward, this is what needs to be clarified in the text,” he added. Nguyen of Polaris Infosec stressed that the focus now for businesses, both domestic and foreign, should be on compliance, adding that companies that maintain data of Vietnamese partners and customers overseas only need to create a backup of said data here in Vietnam. “This actually serves as an added benefit of having backup and recovery capabilities, which assist in mitigating other cyber risks as long as they protect those backups,” Nguyen said. The Minister of Information and Communications last month issued Decision No.1762/QD-BTTTT, promulgating the Action Plan to implement the National Cybersecurity and Safety, with vision to 2030. The decision aims to organise the effective implementation of the tasks assigned in Decision No.964/QD-TTg dated August 2022 approving the National Cybersecurity and Safety plan. Under the strategy, until 2025, the government will maintain Vietnam’s ranking of between 25th and 30th in the Global Cybersecurity Index, assessed by the International Telecommunications Union. Meanwhile, the country is expected to lay a foundation for a cybersecurity and cyber information safety industry and formulate an appropriate policy platform for startups in these fields. The goal is to have 3-5 key products and services related to information safety that will dominate the domestic market and be able to compete globally. In a larger context, Vietnam’s Law on Cybersecurity has been around for three years. Taking effect in January 2019, the Law on Cybersecurity, with seven chapters and 43 articles, was a collaborative effort with the participation and comments from functional ministries and organisations, large domestic telecommunications and IT enterprises in Vietnam including VNPT, FPT, and BKAV; a number of domestic and foreign experts; economic and telecommunications groups including Facebook, Google, Apple, and Amazon; and the US-ASEAN Business Council and the Asia Cloud Computing Association, amongst others. The law since 2019 has stipulated that domestic and foreign enterprises providing services on telecommunications networks, the internet, and value-added services in cyberspace in Vietnam – and carrying out the activities of collecting, exploiting, analysing, and processing data about personal information, data on the relationship of service users, and data created by service users in Vietnam – must be stored in Vietnam for the period prescribed by the government.	
The Vietnam Cybersecurity Emergency Response Teams/Coordination Centre (VNCERT/CC), in collaboration with the National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Centre of China (CNCERT/CC), recently held an online ASEAN-China international cyber security training course. This is a training course for staffs of member units of the national information security response network and organisations and enterprises in the field of information security in Vietnam, with more than 200 participants. It provided trainees with an overview of information safety and security; experience in addressing cyber attacks, as well as information and technical experience in ensuring information safety and security. In addition, trainees were also equipped with information, knowledge and experience in building and implementing information security between CNCERT and VNCERT, and their international cooperation.	
"According to the World Bank, the use of digital platforms, e-commerce sites, social networks and specialized applications in Vietnam has increased sharply in response to the COVID-19 epidemic, from 48% businesses in June 2020 to 73% in January 2021. During the same period, the rate of enterprises investing in digital solutions - such as installing equipment and software for business operations - quadrupled from 5% to 21%. In addition, the Vietnamese Government has stepped up efforts to streamline procedures and provide public services to the people through digital tools. The number of online public services increased from 169 in March 2020 to over 1,900 services in October 2020. By February 2020, more than 2,000 services had been standardized and integrated into the National Public Service Portal, from driver licensing to tax registration and business registration. Accordingly, traffic and transactions rose by ten times within one year, from January 2020 to February 2021. Although the new trend of applying digital technology under impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has been encouraged, the level of expertise of users is still relatively limited. Digital platforms are mainly used to streamline simple business functions such as business administration, sales and payment methods. Only large enterprises with sufficient financial and human resources are able to use digital tools in production planning, supply chain management, and manufacturing operations. The World Bank's survey themed “Firm-level technology adoption in Vietnam 2020” shows that new technology application is at an early stage in Vietnam. Only 6% of businesses in Vietnam used cloud computing for business tasks and under 2% of businesses used big data or artificial intelligence for marketing. Only about 6% of manufacturing enterprises used additive manufacturing (AM) or other advanced techniques, and less than 2% used robots. The low level of digital innovation in the private sector is explained by limited business needs, inadequate government support and underdeveloped ""digital"" businesses. Limited demand of businesses stems from uncertainty about the return on technology investment, weak internal capacity to use technology, financial constraints, and legal issues. More than 75% of small and medium sized enterprises and about 63% of large corporations did not know about the return on technology investment and whether the investment is suitable for their needs. Less than 60% of small and medium sized enterprises said they either lack information about existing technologies or lack the skills to use them. In addition, Vietnamese businesses said that access to foreign finance is still limited. Government support was not enough for digital businesses or for those looking to invest in digital tools. Support from the public sector still focused on research and development (R&D) rather than on technology upgrading and commercialization, including adoption and diffusion of existing technologies, according to the World Bank survey. Locally developed digital-based e-commerce platforms, such as Sendo and Tiki, could compete with regional rivals such as Lazada and Shopee. But Vietnam still had fewer digital businesses (about 250 businesses) than other countries in the South East Asia such as Malaysia (450 businesses) and Indonesia (530 businesses). Protecting privacy {keywords} The Government's challenge is to strike a balance between allowing access to information and protecting users of digital tools. Photo: VNA The rapid development of technology gives people more ways to access and share information on the internet, but also facilitates more sophisticated attacks on security and personal data. The government's challenge is to strike a balance between allowing access to information and protecting users of digital tools, the World Bank warns. According to the Global Cybersecurity Index, Vietnam has a fairly good level of cyber protection, 25th out of 194 countries and territories, 4th out of 11 Southeast Asian countries and 7th in the Asia-Pacific region. Vietnam has promulgated the Law on Cybersecurity, effective from January 1, 2019. The law requires businesses to cooperate and comply with the law when operating in Vietnam. Also, IT companies must store data about Vietnamese users on servers located in the country. Vietnam is a leader in the export of consumer electronics products - including half of Samsung's high-end smartphones and over 80% of Intel's central processing units for personal computers. But these products are still scarce in the domestic market due to restrictions placed on these foreign corporations. These products are often imported by other countries and domestic consumers have to pay higher prices, while the profits are enjoyed by wholesalers and retailers. The World Bank said that digital transformation in the economy is expected to make a significant contribution to improving efficiency in Vietnam. Such a transition has actually been accelerated by the COVID-19 shock as trade and services have become increasingly digitized in response to social distancing policies. A boom in e-commerce has occurred. In 2020, Vietnam was the fastest growing market in East Asia. These are very promising steps."	
The Vietnamese government understands the cloud and digital transformation trends, and relevant authorities are working closely with public cloud vendors. While ministries in Vietnam are working on legal amendments to promote digital transformation, foreign-invested enterprises are looking for more reform of legal and policy in conjunction with other areas such as intellectual property and customs tax to facilitate their next steps. More tech-related legislation sought for foreign businesses Businesses from abroad hope the government can create a strong roadmap for digital transformation in manufacturing, processing, and more - Le Toan After a decade in Vietnam, Israeli CEO of Renova Cloud Doron Shachar now sees high demand for cloud and big data analytics in the Vietnamese market, and is making plans to tap into this growth potential, including an increase in headcounts. He told VIR, “We already foresee a big gap in those skills. We look forward to contributing to the market’s growth with our abilities, experience, and building skills while supporting enterprises and small- and medium-sized enterprises in their cloud journey.” Cloud adoption is increasing in Vietnam – together with food and beverage manufacturers, many others in sectors like manufacturing and supply chain have begun to explore cloud opportunities, and the ecosystem has grown and expanded significantly, along different verticals and in different sectors. According to the Ministry of Information and Communications, digital transformation comprises both physical and soft infrastructure. Basic and traditional physical infrastructure includes telecommunications infrastructure, 4G/5G networks, fiber optic internet, and more. Now the market has new physical infrastructure, that being data centres and cloud computing. The Vietnamese government understands the cloud and digital transformation trends, and relevant authorities are working closely with public cloud vendors. The country is also developing infrastructure to accelerate national digital transformation, with cloud computing being among the attention by making legal amendments and developing new rules. Opening new doors The amendment of the Law on Radiofrequency and completion of a draft law on the digital technology industry are underway to implement the government’s orientation and policies on Industry 4.0. Several key pieces of legislation related to data localisation and data privacy currently in the pipeline are attracting interest among foreign-invested enterprises (see box), especially from Europe. Shachar added that the Law on Radiofrequency amendment is mostly related to the telcos industry and mobile providers, and it seems that the government is opening up more opportunities for foreign investments which were only meant in the past for the public sector. “We can see this trend in various sectors including data centres, solar panels, advanced agriculture, and manufacturing,” he said. “There are specific sectors such as agriculture and manufacturing 4.0 in which we can see great synergies with overseas technology. These recent changes will definitely enable these synergies to happen.” Similarly, Eunjung Han, vice chairwoman of the European Chamber of Commerce’s (EuroCham) Digital Sector Committee, said, “We greatly appreciate the support of various ministries and believe that adherence to European data privacy laws will benefit our dialogue. A clear legal framework that ensures safety, transparency, and effectiveness will ensure that more EU investments are attracted to Vietnam in the future. We look forward to seeing laws that facilitate free data flow and cross-border information exchanges between Vietnam and the EU.” Roadmap efficiency According to the committee, in the digital age of cyberattacks, the development of these regulations illustrates the government’s efforts to ensure national security, enhance data security, and serve the public interest. During the public commenting phase, EuroCham members and businesses using digital technologies such as cloud computing, social media, and e-payments asserted that provisions around data localisation and cross-border transfer could impede the free flow of data within the supply chain. In spite of these, the committee is encouraging the Vietnamese government to consider efforts in reforming its legal and policy framework in order to promote digital transformation in manufacturing activities in conjunction with other areas such as intellectual property, customs tax, digital infrastructure, non-cash payment and fintech, and logistics; while investing in e-government and digitally delivered services, including the use of AI, blockchain, robotics, and sensor networks. Foreign businesses hope the government can create an effective roadmap for digital transformation in manufacturing, focusing on ensuring data privacy and cybersecurity, developing competition and intellectual property policy, and improving the skills of the workforce, especially in the digital space, the committee added. Providing favourable conditions for the development of technology companies and providing incentives to encourage and support startups in digital transformation is also being looked at. Like Renova Cloud, other cloud service providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Alibaba Cloud are venturing further into sectors and industries in Vietnam. For instance, after years of approaching enterprises here, AWS has recently increased its approach to the public sector when it became a partner of Vietnamese tech giant VNPT in June, for developing digital transformation solutions for government agencies and businesses. Elsewhere, international tech titans like Ericsson, Huawei, VMware, Keysight Technologies, Lenovo, and Qualcomm are also working to tap into this trend. According to the EuroCham Digital Sector Committee, which represents the voice of tech brands such as AWS, Archetype Group, Ozitem Group, Sunbytes, TekID, WS Interactive, and others, technological adoption and dissemination will continue to accelerate, and its members will continue to monitor and take full advantage of these trends.	
"Identity theft is not a new crime in the financial and banking scene, but insiders said a new twist on an old problem that banks and clients should worry about, exposes the need for heightened cybersecurity. Trương Đức Lượng, chairman of the Vietnam Network Security JSC, revealed that dangerous actors could use SEO (search engine optimisation) to improve their websites' ranking in search results when people look up information online. The better visibility the websites have in search engines, the more likely that they garner more clicks and attract more prospective victims. Once visitors click on the websites, they are vulnerable to malicious schemes resulting in financial loss and identity theft. Another tactic is using the online ads network to spread malicious links. Gullible users clicking on the links have their browsers hijacked by fake warnings. They fall victim to various scams if they follow the links' instructions. The chairman urged banks to use brand-listening tools to analyse public opinion about their brands on social media, whereby they could track down malicious websites imitating their official ones. Informative campaigns could also be launched to keep bank clients well-informed about identity theft and increase their vigilance against suspicious websites. Ngô Tuấn Anh, deputy chairman of the Vietnam Information Security Association, said that cyber-criminals normally transfer their scammed money to various bank accounts and use it to buy cryptocurrencies to hide the trail. Once the money has been laundered into cryptocurrencies, the damage is done, and it is difficult to recuperate the loss. Hence, scam victims must report their cases to banks as quickly as possible to prevent further loss and maximise recovered money. ""We should develop a mechanism that allows instant reports to help scam victims get back their money as much as possible,"" he said. Văn Anh Tuấn, senior manager of the Information Security Administration at Techcombank, claimed that banks have been investing massively in cybersecurity to prevent impersonation and have had success. In the past, fraudsters could easily impersonate someone and steal money from their bank accounts once they got their username, password and OTP code. It is no longer the case now, as bank clients will receive warnings from security systems when fraudsters try to access their bank accounts via an unknown device, adding another layer of security to banking transactions. The manager gave some tips to help bank clients stay ahead of scammers. Clients should search for unknown phone numbers on Google. If a phone number claims to be of a bank employee, ask for credentials. A good Google search sometimes proves highly effective against impersonators. Nguyễn Thành Đạt, deputy director of the Vietnam Cyberspace Security Technology, remarked that bank clients normally do not know what to do and where to call for help when they fall prey to scams. For that reason, he suggested an easy-to-memorise hotline number via which scam victims could report their cases to banks and seek assistance from bank staff more efficiently. ""Bank clients should be more cautious online. They should call their banks' customer support centre any time they receive a suspicious request from someone claiming themselves as bank staff,"" he added"	
Along with a surge in the number of mobile phone users accessing the Internet, there has been an increase in the number of mobile malware targeting Vietnamese users, according to the global cybersecurity company Kaspersky. According to the Digital 2022 report conducted by We Are Social, the number of mobile phone users accessing the Internet grew by 147 per cent year-on-year last year. Kaspersky, meanwhile, reported that it detected and prevented a total of 43,171 mobile attacks targeting Vietnamese users last year, 46.9 per cent higher than in 2020. Trojan is the most common threat in Việt Nam. While Việt Nam and Thailand saw growth in the number of malware attacks, the rest of Southeast Asia observed a downward trend in the number of attacks on mobile users thanks in part to Kaspersky’s efforts to block more than 2,000 mobile malware per day. Specifically, Indonesia decreased by 0.9 per cent, Malaysia decreased by 30.59 per cent, the Philippines decreased by 38.85 per cent, Singapore decreased by 15.85 per cent, and Thailand increased by 130.71 per cent. Indonesia was the country with the highest number of mobile malwares with 375,547 attacks discovered. This is also the third year it has been ranked first in Southeast Asia since 2019. Malware, short for malicious software, is a file or code, typically delivered over a network, that infects, explores, steals or conducts virtually any behaviour an attacker wants. Research from Kaspersky also shows that, although mobile malware decreased globally in 2021, it is becoming more sophisticated in terms of both malware functionality and vectors. Additionally, in terms of mobile banking malware, Việt Nam ranked first with 697 attacks detected, 131 cases more than in 2020. Indonesia and the Philippines also saw the growth of mobile banking malware. Thailand, however, had an impressive reduction, with 255 cases in 2020 dropping to 28 cases in 2021, a 89 per cent fall. This could be a positive signal, but users should not act carelessly. According to another research from Kaspersky, costs incurred due to a data breach in 2021 increased to an average of US$105,000 for small and medium businesses. Yeo Siang Tiong, general manager for Southeast Asia at Kaspersky, said, “The future is definitely mobile here in Southeast Asia. On the surface, it may seem that cybercriminals are becoming less active because of the decrease in mobile malware attacks. But, this is a global trend and it does not necessarily mean we are safer. “We have to note that as we embrace digital payment apps more, we unconsciously put more of our hard-earned money in our devices, which remain vulnerable to simple malware attacks. There is a gap between awareness and action here in SEA so I urge digital payment providers and regulators to help us in encouraging users to protect their mobile devices,” Yeo added. In order to prevent being attacked by mobile malware, Kaspersky recommends users download apps only from official sources, use apps from trusted developers with a good reputation to minimize the chances of encountering malware, ignore apps that promise overly generous prizes, don’t give apps access they don’t need to work, and use a reliable mobile antivirus that will detect and block malware that tries to get inside the phone.	
Cybersecurity is a global issue that needs a global approach, said Prime Minister Phạm Minh Chính while chairing the first meeting of the National Steering Committee on Cyber Security and Safety in Hà Nội. At the meeting, participants looked at the cybersecurity situation and gave opinions on policy for 2022. Several strategic matters regarding national cybersecurity and safety were also tabled for discussion. PM Chính, who is head of the committee, said that cyber safety and security were becoming increasingly complicated and challenging to forecast, affecting all aspects of society in all countries. He hailed the efforts of the committee and forces contributing to ensuring safety for large events in the country in recent years and the healthy environment in cyberspace, noting that Việt Nam ranked 25th out of 194 countries and territories in the world and seventh in the Asia-Pacific in terms of cybersecurity and safety. Holding that cyber safety and security issues would be more complicated going forward, especially amid changes in geopolitics and the strong digital transformation process in many countries, the Government leader stressed the need to flexibly adapt to new developments and protect cyber safety and security promptly, meeting the demands of digital transformation. He asked committee members, the Ministry of Public Security and relevant ministries and agencies to improve the forecast capacity to make timely adjustments to solutions and tasks. The PM also highlighted the importance of reviewing and building cyber safety and security institutions towards deeper engagement in major global trends and international commitments. Chính also required that State management over cybersecurity and safety be strengthened, and the political system and people's awareness of cybersecurity be enhanced.	
More data breaches by unidentified attackers, increasing advanced scams, and more attacks on cryptocurrency businesses and the non-fungible token industry are among the top trends to look for in 2022 in Southeast Asia, according to global cybersecurity firm Kaspersky. The region, like the rest of the world, is gearing up for a year of recovery after two years of COVID-19 with companies and individuals ready to return to normalcy, and authorities putting in place policies for returning to office, school and travel. But as seen last year, cybercriminals can target a variety of industries like airlines, hospitals, banks, telecom, and e-commerce, universities, government websites and even social media giants through sophisticated means. Experts from Kaspersky’s Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) spelled out major trends to look out for this year to give organisations and individuals a compass to navigate the shifting cyberthreat landscape and secure the recovery phase. They said the pandemic coincided with the rise of targeted ransomware attacks focusing on the most valuable targets as well as interruption-sensitive businesses. With strong international cooperation and multiple task forces to trace ransomware gangs, Kaspersky experts believe the number of such attacks will decrease in 2022. But advanced scams and social engineering may be on the rise this year, they said. The number of scam reports keeps increasing year after year. The attackers resort to non-technology focused attacks, exploiting human vulnerabilities, involving all sorts of scams via SMS, automated phone calls, popular messengers, social networks, and so on. In Thailand nearly 40,000 people were scammed with their bank accounts and credit cards showing inexplicable transactions. Scammers also used fake bank websites to steal banking details of Malaysians last year and impersonated top e-commerce platforms in Việt Nam to trick users into sending money. Vitaly Kamluk, director of GReATfor Asia Pacific, said, “This trend is fuelled by automation of some services, such as automatic dialling and automatic initial message delivery with expected follow-up action that triggers manual human-driven scam operation. “We believe this trend will develop further in future, including production of victim-tailored documents, images, deep fake videos, and voice synthesis. “It is possible that there will be a shift back from computer-assisted crime schemes (scams) to pure cybercrime based on complete compromise of digital assets (user accounts, smartphones, personal computers). It is likely we will see the first attempts at such technically advanced scams in 2022.” The experts also predicted more data breaches by unidentified attackers. Kamluk said: “In recent years we observed that in many cases of data breaches the victims were neither able to identify the attackers nor find out how they got compromised. Although it has always been a challenge to identify the attacker and the source of the breach, the percentage of such cases has increased significantly in the past two years to over 75 per cent according to our research.” Kaspersky experts said it is not only a symptom of the serious challenges that cyber defenders face, but also a motivational factor and a signal for other passive cybercriminals to rush into data theft and illegal trading. “As a result, we shall see more databases, internal communications and personal details stolen from various companies and traded on the black market.” The company also expects a larger wave of cryptocurrency and NFT (non-fungible token) industry attacks this year. By observing cutting edge attackers with large human resources such as Lazarus group and its sub-group, BlueNoroff, Kaspersky researchers concluded that “we shall expect an even more significant wave of attacks on cryptocurrency businesses.” Even the growing industry of NFT will be targeted by cybercriminals due to the fact that countries in Southeast Asia are leading in terms of NFT ownership, they said. “From direct attacks on employees of cryptocurrency start-ups and exchanges through sophisticated social engineering, software exploits, and even fake suppliers to mass attacks via supply chain software or its components (such as third-party code libraries), we will see an increase in such cases. “Additionally, we should see more incidents of NFT property theft in the coming years. Being a totally new area, there will be an initial surge in such attacks since there will be a shortage of skilled police investigators.” These attacks would not only have an effect on the global cryptocurrency markets but also the share prices of individual companies, which would also be monetised by the attackers via stock market illegal insights trading.	
Cybersecurity is one of the central issues in the digital transformation of the banking system. To mitigate risks, banks must adopt synchronised solutions that include top-notch security technologies, an effective cybersecurity risk management process and a strategy to foster a cybersecurity culture, according to academics from the University of Economics HCM City Business School. In a study titled ‘Cybersecurity risks in digital banking: The case of Việt Nam,’ Dr Phan Chung Thủy and other researchers said in recent years Vietnamese banks have embraced digital transformation and it entails security risks. Typically cybercriminals attack banks’ systems to steal data or perform acts that cause losses to the bank and customers, it said. Attacks targeting customers, impersonating bank employees, malicious fake messages purportedly coming from bank links, and websites disguised as banks’ to defraud customers are also becoming more widespread, it said. The study cited Kaspersky as saying Việt Nam ranks 21st in the world in terms of phishing attacks with 673,743 recorded in 2020, only after Thailand and Indonesia in Southeast Asia. According to a survey by the Việt Nam Information Security Association, more than 50 per cent of cyberattacks are aimed at banks and financial institutions. A report by the Ministry of Public Security’s Department of Cybersecurity and High-Tech Crime Prevention said that in 2020 banks lost nearly VNĐ100 billion (US$4.39 million) in 4,000 cyberattacks, with a single bank suffering a loss of VNĐ44 billion. To address these problems, the scholars suggested various solutions related to process, technology and people. “The process-related solutions will focus on detailing steps in cybersecurity risk management together with detailed instructions to help banks identify and assess threats, and thus make active plans to prevent cybersecurity breaches and especially create effective incident response plans. “The technology-related solutions are built by combining modern cybersecurity tools and techniques. They require banks to adopt artificial intelligence and ‘security orchestration, automation and response’ technologies, two types of technology that are appreciated by banks around the world. “Despite its potential benefits, blockchain should be used with caution. There have been many reports recently that there are still many unknown hazards associated with this technology. “For HR solutions, we suggest a proactive approach to raising awareness and fostering a cybersecurity culture at banks.” The report also recommended that the Government and the State Bank of Vietnam should focus more on issues related to the legal framework and developing a national cybersecurity strategy. Another solution is to limit cybersecurity risks for a comprehensive digital banking model. “Based on the case of Brazil’s C6 digital bank, we recommend that authorities draft a comprehensive digital banking cybersecurity strategy. “Furthermore, cybersecurity risks can be also mitigated with the use of a three-layer risk control model. In particular, the first layer is related to operating procedures, the middle layer is related to risk control and ensuring compliance with security principles and the final layer is related to internal control.” It also offered some general advice to banks’ customers for protecting themselves against cyberthreats: by keeping personal information as safe as possible when using online banking services (installing anti-virus software and firewalls on network-connected devices), being wary of unscrupulous websites and fraudulent emails and messages and using different and strong passwords for different accounts.	
"As businesses digitalise their operations in response to COVID-19, cyberattacks are on the rise too. Over half of Small and Medium-Sized Businesses (SMBs) in Việt Nam have been victims of cyberattacks in the past year, according to a study by Cisco Secure. According to its study, 59 per cent SMBs in Việt Nam suffered a cyber attack in the past year, of which 86 per cent lost customer information to malicious hackers. The study is based on an independent survey of over 3,700 business and IT leaders across 14 markets in the Asia-Pacific, including 152 in Việt Nam. The survey highlighted the multitudes of ways in which attackers can try to infiltrate online systems. Thirty-nine per cent of affected SMBs in Việt Nam have said that the biggest reason these attacks are successful is that current cybersecurity solutions are not adequate. Thirty-two per cent said they have no cybersecurity solutions in place. Lương Thị Lệ Thủy, Managing Director of Cisco Vietnam, said that SMBs in the country have increased their pace of digitisation over the past 18 months. This has been driven by the need to leverage technology to continue to operate during the pandemic. Lương Thị Lệ Thủy, Managing Director Cisco Vietnam. -- File Photo This digitisation has created a critical need for SMBs to invest in capabilities that safeguard themselves against cyberattacks. The more digital they become, the more attractive a target they are for malicious actors, she said. Besides the loss of customer data, SMBs in Việt Nam that suffered a cyber incident also lost employee data (67 per cent), internal emails (61 per cent), financial information (58 per cent), intellectual property (56 per cent), and sensitive business information (51per cent). In addition, 61 per cent admitted that cyberattacks have hurt their reputation. Disruptions caused by cyber incidents can have serious implications for SMBs. Downtime of less than one hour usually has a severe impact on revenue, while downtime of more than a day can result in permanent closure. “We are living in a world where customers seek instant gratification. They no longer have the patience for lengthy downtimes. SMBs must be able to detect, investigate, and block or remediate any cyber incident in the shortest time possible,” said Juan Huat Koo, Director Cybersecurity, Cisco ASEAN Conquer fear Cisco’s study found that while SMBs in Việt Nam are worried about cyberattacks, they are taking steps to improve their cybersecurity. According to the study, 88 per cent of SMBs have completed scenario planning or simulations for potential cybersecurity incidents in the past 12 months. The majority have a planned response to cyberattacks (89 per cent) and recovery plans (88 per cent) in place. Vietnamese SMBs are also increasingly aware that the biggest cyber threat comes from unsecured laptops and the use of personal devices. The good news is there are now strong levels of investment by SMBs regarding cybersecurity. Some 87 per cent of Vietnamese SMBs have increased their investment in cybersecurity since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Cybersecurity is evolving rapidly. This is being driven by trends like expanding attack surfaces, moving to multi-clouds, the rise of hybrid work, as well as new security requirements and regulations,"" said Kerry Singleton, Managing Director, Cybersecurity, Asia Pacific, Japan, China, Cisco."	
"The act of buying and selling personal data of over 10,000 people should result in a fine of VNĐ80-100 million (nearly US$3,500), according to a proposal by the Ministry of Public Security. The Ministry of Public Security completed a draft decree on sanctioning administrative violations in the field of cybersecurity to collect comments from agencies, organisations and individuals. Notably, in the draft decree, the Ministry of Public Security dedicated a section with 17 articles to stipulate penalties for violations in the protection of personal data. The Ministry of Public Security said that information and data security have received attention, but no sanctions have been applied. Personal information data is used, stolen, disclosed, exchanged, sold for profit, or solicited from customers when using services. Personal information of users of applications and services in cyberspace is being collected, exploited and used publicly by enterprises providing digital content, e-commerce, and foreign data storage applications. ""These are behaviours that need to be sanctioned to increase the effectiveness of the law, increase deterrence, and prevent crime,"" the Ministry of Public Security emphasised. The fine will be double the above regulation for acts of disclosing or losing personal data after it has been transferred across the border, causing consequences to 100,000 data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens; and three times more with the act of disclosing and losing personal data after crossing the border, causing consequences for 1 million data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens. Acts of disclosing or losing personal data after it has been transferred across the border, causing consequences on more than 1 million data subjects who are Vietnamese citizens, will be subject to a fine equal to 5 per cent of total revenue in Việt Nam. In addition, the draft decree being consulted by the Ministry of Public Security also stipulates the form and penalties for violations of regulations on information security, cyber attack prevention, implementation of network security protection activities, and the prevention and control of acts of using cyberspace, information technology and electronic means to violate the law on social order and safety. The full text of the draft decree on sanctioning of administrative violations in the field of cybersecurity has now been posted on the Government's portal at chinhphu.vn and the Ministry of Public Security's portal at mps.gov.vn for comments for two months starting from September 20."	
ASEAN parliament delegations on Tuesday called for an acceleration of digitalisation and promotion of digital economy in the region on a safe and highly secure network, especially amid COVID-19 threats. The statements were made on Tuesday during the virtual meeting of the Committee on Political matters, as part of the 42nd General Assembly of the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly that opened on Monday under the theme of “Forging parliamentary cooperation in digital inclusion towards ASEAN Community 2025”. The meeting was held under the chair of the Legislative Council of Brunei, AIPA member parliament delegations, and AIPA Secretary General Nguyễn Tường Vân. The Committee urged Governments to have programmes in place to help raise awareness and protect the public in terms of cybersecurity, and concurred that the member parliaments need to further work with each other in cybersecurity issues and improving data protection legal frameworks. At the session, the member parliaments unanimously approved four draft resolutions, including: Report of the 12th AIPA Advisory Group Meeting (AIPA Caucus 12); Enhancing cybersecurity and data protection towards a resilient cyberspace in ASEAN; Fostering human security in digital inclusion for ASEAN; and Strengthening parliamentary diplomacy towards the ASEAN Community. The Vietnamese National Assembly delegation, led by Chairman of the Committee for Foreign Affairs Vũ Hải Hà, has delivered opinions on some matters related to cyber security cooperation and data protection in ASEAN, promoted human security, promoted parliamentary diplomacy, and raised a number of proposals to strengthen AIPA-ASEAN cooperation in this field. In the draft resolution for “Enhancing cybersecurity and data protection towards a resilient cyberspace in ASEAN,” the Vietnamese delegation urged for a cooperation mechanism via the parliamentary channel, for sharing experience in perfecting legislation and monitoring the implementation of cybersecurity laws, and continued international cooperation in the spirit of promoting mutual understanding and action within the ASEAN Community in terms of cybersecurity. During the discussions for the resolution, Hải Hà said Việt Nam was highly interested in cyberspace issues as one of the key components in the country’s efforts to bring the achievements of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to work for its socio-economic development. Việt Nam passing the law on cyber information security in 2015 has promulgated the strategy on cybersecurity to realise its goals in protecting national sovereignty, interests and national security on the internet and building a safe and healthy cyberspace. Việt Nam's National Assembly also adopted a cybersecurity law in 2018, marking a substantive milestone in attempts to regulate cybersecurity matters. Việt Nam jumped 25 places after two years to rank 25th out of 194 countries and territories worldwide in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in 2020, according to a report from the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), said the official. The NA official also stressed the country was respecting citizens’ rights to privacy in the cyberspace, especially as Việt Nam was implementing national digital transformation to 2025 with vision towards 2030 and building e-Government. For the draft resolution of the “Fostering human security in digital inclusion for ASEAN”, the Vietnamese delegation said there should be common understanding in terms of the definition and approach to human security, in line with ASEAN Charter and ASEAN Human Rights Declaration and other relevant documents. In the face of the devastation caused by COVID-19 pandemic, Việt Nam wants AIPA parliaments to boost information sharing to help contain the outbreaks and promote growth post-pandemic. The Vietnamese delegation also said that parliamentary diplomacy should contribute to promoting friendship between nations and peoples, and at the same time, have positive contributions to support ASEAN Governments in their efforts to deepen regional integration, build a rules-based ASEAN Community with people at the front and centre, and together handle global issues like the ongoing pandemic	
Việt Nam's top diplomat has said the world needs to create a code of conduct for nations' actions in cyberspace. Vietnamese foreign minister Bùi Thanh Sơn delivered a speech at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC)’s online open discussion held late on Tuesday on maintaining international peace and security on cyberspace hosted by Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, UNSC President for June 2021. In his speech, Sơn said the boom in information and communications technology has created strong and deep impacts on every aspect of life globally, promoting the exchange of human knowledge, increasing mutual understanding as well as sustainable development in each nation. However, more and more terrorists and transnational criminals are taking advantage of technology to infiltrate banking and financial systems, destroy essential infrastructure, incite social disorder, spread extremist ideology and distorted information, causing huge damage to the global economic development, seriously threatening sovereignty, security and development while eroding trust among nations. The Vietnamese minister said cybersecurity is crucial for peace, security, development and prosperity on national and global scales. The sovereignty and interests of each nation in cyberspace must be fully respected. He suggested the international community establish a global framework with rules and a code of conduct for cyberspace based on consensus and the wide and full involvement of countries. Every activity in cyberspace should be in accordance with the United Nations Charter and international law, especially basic principles like respecting nations' independence and sovereignty, not interfering in internal affairs, not using force, and settling disputes peacefully. The minister expressed concern about and objected to the use of harmful ICT technology to attack medical, electricity, water and food facilities. He called on all countries to contribute to enhancing international cooperation, building trust and ensuring security in cyberspace. The explosive development of information technology is an irreversible trend that will be a launchpad for humans on the journey towards prosperity, so Việt Nam has built a national digital transformation strategy and is striving to have its digital economy account for 30 per cent of GDP by 2030, he said. He added that in Southeast Asia, Việt Nam has joined regional cybersecurity mechanisms, including the ASEAN Cybersecurity Cooperation Strategy. The country has also partnered with many nations and international partners in the field. Việt Nam is ready to work with partners to build a cyberspace of peace, stability and safety for the people and sustainable development, he stated. Participants highlighted a need to uphold international law and the United Nations Charter in maintaining peace, security and stability in cyberspace, apart from measures to build trust, improve capacity and coordinate actions among countries.	
Việt Nam is marching towards becoming a cashless society with new methods of electronic payments being deployed widely, but security risks come hand in hand with new technologies and applications. A study by Visa found a surge in the use of mobile wallets and payment apps in the country in recent years, with over 85 per cent of consumers having at least one of them and over 42 per cent using mobile contactless payments. Besides, 71 per cent of consumers use e-wallets or payment apps at least once a week. According to the Fintech and Digital Banking 2025 – Asia Pacific report by Backbase, mobile transactions are forecast to increase by 400 per cent in Việt Nam by 2025, thanks to the booming digital economy. It said the above trend could be accelerated by the effects of the unexpected COVID-19 outbreak and the Government approved in March the pilot application of 'mobile money', which allows the use of mobile phone credit to pay for small-value goods and services. According to statistics from the Department of Telecommunications, by the end of 2020 Việt Nam had 132.5 million active mobile subscribers accounts [population less than 100 million]. So the mobile-money service is expected to quickly spread cashless payment across the country, even to rural, remote and isolated areas. Together with cashless payment systems such as e-wallets, credit cards and banking services, Việt Nam is able to head towards becoming a completely non-cash society in the near future. Embracing cashless society securely In recent times people have increasingly been receiving malicious messages from cybercriminals disguised as banks. The message usually says suspicious transactions related to the customers’ accounts were found and tells them to login into their accounts using a link provided in the message, failing which their accounts will be locked. In this manner, many customers lost money. Yeo Siang Tiong, general manager for Southeast Asia at Kaspersky, said: “The increase in our reliance on e-wallets and mobile banking apps invite greater interest from cybercriminals who are almost always after our money and our confidential data. As a result, we see an increase in sophisticated smishing and phishing attempts targeted at mobile banking users. “We expect more of these incidents in the future, hence it is important to secure your devices and be aware of the risks online as we embrace a digital society.” Kaspersky blocked more than 673,000 phishing attempts aimed at small and medium sized businesses in 2020. Phishing is a social engineering technique used by cybercriminals to steal information from user’s PC, laptop or smartphone for stealing money or data. “The Việt Nam Government, alongside its drive for cashless society, has also been actively spreading awareness and conducting campaigns against threats lurking online,” Võ Dương Tú Diễm, Kaspersky’s territory manager for Việt Nam, said. “We believe that with the right cybersecurity measures and correct cyber habits, Vietnamese can securely conduct financial transactions online.”	
Cybercriminals actively attacked small and medium businesses in Southeast Asia last year, with the top topics they exploited being COVID-19, non-existent video conferences and new corporate services, according to global cybersecurity company Kaspersky. It said its anti-phishing technology blocked a total of 2.89 million attempts aimed at SMBs, a 20 per cent increase from 2019. Phishing is a form of cybercrime based on social engineering techniques that involves stealing confidential data from a person’s computer and subsequently using the data for other purposes ranging from stealing money to selling it. Phishing messages usually take the form of fake notifications from banks, providers, e-pay systems, and other organisations, but can also be an almost 100 per cent perfect replica of a trusted website to which a victim is lured through phishing messages. Indonesia registered the most incidents followed by Thailand and Việt Nam with over half a million attempts each. Malaysian, Filipino, and Singaporean SMBs were not spared, with these nations suffering a combined 795,000 attempts. Yeo Siang Tiong, general manager for Southeast Asia at Kaspersky, said:  “While they serve as the bedrock of our regional economy, SMBs are low-hanging fruits for cybercriminals. These malicious actors are aware that owners are focused on keeping their cash flow more than their cybersecurity, at least for now. “Social engineering attacks such as phishing is also the easiest way in. Combining our current stressed minds with the right buzzwords like COVID-19, and now the vaccines, we expect to see this threat being used more to steal money and data from this already battered segment.” Globally, online phishers exploited the COVID-19 theme, invited victims to non-existent video conferences and insisted that their targets register for “new corporate services.” Given that the fight against the pandemic is not over yet, Kaspersky expects the main trends of 2020 to stay relevant in the near future. An important trend that businesses in SEA, a region famous for being highly active on social media, should note is that phishing links and mails are being shared via online networking platforms, the company said. Kaspersky experts observed that scammers who were spreading their chain mail via social networks and instant messaging applications began to favour the latter in 2020. Message recipients were promised a discount or prize if they opened a link sent to them. “It is true that governments and financial organisations are combining efforts to offer lifeboats for SMBs via grants and offers, but we have to accept that cybercriminals will spare no one,” Yeo said. “Amidst the uncertainties, one thing I can say for sure is that building your IT security is always less costly than suffering a cyberattack.”	
Cybersecurity and policy experts discussed strategies to beef up cyberdefences in the Asia Pacific during the pandemic and beyond at an online forum this week. The APAC Online Policy Forum II, organised by global cybersecurity company Kaspersky, underlined how policies and strategies are formed in APAC, how they remain relevant and effective amidst the continued shift in the region’s threat landscape and how governments can be one step ahead of cybercriminals. Eugene Kaspersky, the company’s CEO, deep dived on the latest cybersecurity threat landscape and trends amplified by the pandemic, particularly the shift in cybercriminals’ targets from smartphones and personal devices to industrial control systems and the internet of things. “Since the beginning of social confinement, we have been observing how the global cybersecurity landscape is being impacted by the pandemic. On one hand, people are at greater risk of cyber intrusions due to their working remotely and spending more time online. On the other, there are more cybercriminals, and they are getting more skilled and experienced. “In 2020 we saw the detection of unique malicious files rise by 20-25 per cent a day. And today our researchers are also closely monitoring more than 200 cybercrime gangs responsible for launching hyper-targeted attacks against banks, governments and nations’ critical infrastructure.” Deputy Minister of Information and Communications Nguyễn Huy Dũng explained how Việt Nam has taken pro-active steps to secure its cyberspace, including by passing a cybersecurity law and creating standards and a blueprint across government and the private sector. “No one can cope with cyberthreats alone. No one can be safe alone.” He described the four-layer of protection model in Việt Nam with an in-house team, 24/7 cybersecurity services by a professional provider, an independent security audit, and independent monitoring by the National Cybersecurity Centre (NCSC). Another successful project  was the ‘Review and remove malware nationwide in 2020’ campaign by the NCSC, which caused the number of botnet IPs to fall by nearly half after scanning over 1.2 million computers and detecting more than 400,000 infected with malware. Kaspersky was among the private partners in this initiative carried out from September to December 2020. Education and cybersecurity Dr Greg Austin, a professor of cybersecurity, strategy and diplomacy at the University of New South Wales in Australia, underlined the connection between cybersecurity capacity building and investment in education. “Globally we are not making enough cybersecurity professionals. “Most countries are not prepared to make investments in education for the cybersecurity ambitions they talk about. Digital transformation and defence capacity building must include educational transformation.” Australia plans to invest US$26 million in education to achieve its vision of creating a more secure online world for its citizens, businesses and the essential services, according to the professor. Graduates from colleges and universities should be exposed to real-life simulations, exercises and red teaming to increase their cybersecurity skills and knowledge, he said. Azleyna Ariffin, Principal Assistant Director, National Cyber Security Agency (NACSA) of Malaysia, concurred with the need for experts as part of a nation’s strategy, said “We also need to focus on developing skills and knowledge in cybersecurity so that it will be a more effective co-operation if we share the same level of skills and understanding with regard to threats and cybersecurity.” There is also a need to increase awareness among the public of the dangers lurking online, according to Ariffin. Nur Achmadi Salmawan, director of the National Critical Information Infrastructure, National Cyber and Crypto Agency (BSSN)  of Indonesia, said his agency launched last December a draft national cybersecurity strategy aimed at combating technical threats and even social threats. “Social media has become a weapon for organisations and individuals to manipulate information for their own interest. It is important to inform people how to use the internet correctly and safely.” All speakers agreed that regional collaboration, high-level private and public co-operation and sharing of knowledge are essential ingredients in building a country’s cybersecurity.	
The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) under the Authority of Information Security, Ministry of Information and Communications, recently announced 10 outstanding events for Vietnamese cybersecurity in 2020 1. Ensuring cybersecurity for major international events hosted by Việt Nam Last year was a very special year for Việt Nam. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the country demonstrated its role as chair of ASEAN and offered new initiatives to contribute to the world. Facing common difficulties and challenges, Việt Nam held a series of major and important online international and regional events last year. Contributing to the overall success was the significant contribution of cybersecurity experts from the ministries of information and communications, public security and national defence, and service providers. Ensuring absolute security for these events demonstrated Việt Nam's responsibility, role and image in the international arena. 2. All ministries, branches and localities basically implement Security Operation Centre (SOC) connecting with NCSC That all ministries, branches and localities have basically implemented the SOC and technically connected with NCSC is a new step in information security assurance at agencies and units. Implementing SOC helps ministries, agencies and localities to be proactive in ensuring cybersecurity. More than 10 Vietnamese enterprises provide SOC products and services. 3. The campaign to scan and process malware is deployed in the entire of Vietnamese cyberspace The campaign to scan and handle malware nationwide by NCSC accompanies businesses in the Việt Nam Malware and Cyber-attack Prevention alliance and international enterprises. Through the website khonggianmang.vn/chiendich2020 from September to December last year, the campaign was carried out in all provinces and cities from local to central levels. 4. WhiteHat Grand Prix Global Cyber ​​Security Competition 06 and Student Contest with ASEAN Information Security 2020 Many national and international cybersecurity competitions were held last year, notably, the global cybersecurity competition WhiteHat Grand Prix 06 and ASEAN Students Contest on Information Security 2020. These competitions contributed to developing safe human resources and cybersecurity in Việt Nam while enhancing the country's image and position in the international arena. 5. Việt Nam one of the first countries to announce the list of requirements for technical quotas for terminals, base transceiver stations and quality of 5G service The spread of 5G technology will create breakthroughs in the scale and speed of information. Việt Nam is accelerating the commercialisation of 5G mobile networks. The Ministry of Information and Communications has determined the most essential factor when implementing 5G is cybersecurity. Therefore, a legal framework for information security for 5G networks has been established. 6. Make-in-Việt Nam cybersecurity product ecosystems account for more than 90 per cent of product categories Việt Nam's capacity to ensure cybersecurity is based on a very important foundation, which is the products, services and solutions in the information security ecosystem owned by Vietnamese enterprises. Statistics showed the rate of safe products for domestic network security increased to 55 per cent by 2019 from only five per cent in 2015. A huge milestone in cybersecurity by last year is that Việt Nam has owned more than 90 per cent of the cybersecurity product ecosystem serving Party and State agencies and Vietnamese people. 6. Two major programmes: Việt Nam Information Security Day 2020 Hosted by VNISA, in collaboration with the Authority of Information Security, the Việt Nam Information Security Day 2020 took place for the first time both offline and online. This was the largest and most prominent forum in the country last year. Issues discussed at the forum aimed to promote Vietnamese businesses to own the cybersecurity ecosystem, products and services for national digital transformation. 7. DF Cyber ​​Defence 2020 cybersecurity competition a highlight event of Banking Tech 2020, organised by NCSC and IEC Group The event included 30 enterprises and organisations in the fields of finance - banking, insurance and securities. The competition is expected to be an annual activity in the financial and banking sector. 8. Government's measures against spam messages, spam emails, and spam calls bring results Decree 91/2020 on combating spam messages, emails and calls was issued by the Government on August 14 last year. It can be seen the Government's drastic measures to combat spam messages, spam emails and spam calls last year have brought remarkable results and changes. 9. Taking advantage of online working during COVID-19, online tricks soared NCSC experts said online fraud is a common and longstanding form of cyberattack. Taking advantage of the complex situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in which almost all activities went online, fraud through cyberspace has been increasing, especially targeting people using telecommunications and social networks. 10. A series of popular software and products exploited for vulnerabilities to attack APT Groups of hackers all over the world were very active last year while the world was dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. Hackers took advantage of security weaknesses of products, software and applications to launch cyberattacks. Việt Nam was no exception when it comes to detect and prevented a series of Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) attacks	
"The HCM City police on January 12 launched a cybersecurity and hi-tech crime prevention division. Senior Lieutenant Colonel Nguyễn Thế Lâm, deputy chief of staff, heads the division (PA05). Speaking at the launch ceremony, Nguyễn Thành Phong, chairman of the city People’s Committee, said the city had identified cybersecurity as one of the pillars of building a smart city. In October last year the city launched an information security centre to monitor, prevent and respond to information security incidents affecting State agencies, he said. ""The city is a 'special' urban area and a national hub for many things, but also faces a great threat from cyber and high-tech criminals,"" he said. Recognising that, the Ministry of Public Security decided to strengthen the city police with the establishment of a cybersecurity and hi-tech crime prevention division, he said. The city would help the police acquire facilities and equipment for cybersecurity and hi-tech crime prevention, ensuring that they achieve a ""dramatic change"" right from the beginning of 2021, he said. Major General Lê Hồng Nam, director of the police department, said with criminals taking advantage of the internet and other technologies to subvert political and social security and social order, the establishment of the PA05 would meet the requirements of fighting crime. ""It is also a milestone in the process of making the city police stronger and more modern,"" he added."	
Asia Pacific (APAC), a fertile land for social media, houses more than half of the total users worldwide and is at the centre of Facebook’s growth. The latest numbers from German company Statista, which specialises in market and consumer data, show that East Asia has logged the most number of virtual network users at over 1 billion as of 2020 so far, with Southeast Asia and South Asia both trailing behind with over 400 million users, respectively. As the region first hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, different forms of lockdowns have been implemented, eased and re-issued across APAC, putting forward uncharted opportunities for the internet and social media. The rapid rise and ever-evolving usage of these platforms -- from posting pictures, sending messages, to becoming an expanding marketplace -- makes it essential to examine this new economic frontier. Speaking at Kaspersky’s sixth Cybersecurity Weekend on Tuesday, Vitaly Kamluk, Director of Global Research and Analysis (GReAT) for APAC, at Kaspersky, said: “One of the most visible effects of this pandemic is how it forced everyone, from individuals to the biggest companies, to shift a lot of their activities online. “This dependence, triggered by our need to secure our physical health, also pushed us to increase our social media use, either to connect with our distant loved ones, to give support to our community, to entertain ourselves, or to get hold of products and services that we need. Parallel to this trend is the opening of wider doors for cybercriminals to exploit.” Aside from the heavier reliance on the internet, the pandemic situation also provided an effective tool for cybercriminals – a “hook” that could make one click a phishing email, share a malicious link, forward an infected image, and more. “From detecting and analysing 350,000 unique malware samples a day pre-COVID, we currently see a total of 428,000 new samples per a 24-hour window. “Add the geopolitical events across APAC, the uptick on e-commerce and e-wallet adoption, the continuous remote work set-up and online learning, and the emotional and psychological stresses of the situation, the 2020 threat landscape seems to favor cybercriminals. “However, hope is in our hands as we are the controller of our online activities. Improved vigilance to protect our digital identities and assets is necessary,” Kamluk said. Rafizah Amran, deputy chief marketing and communication officer for Prasarana Malaysia and an integrated marketing communications and public relations specialist, said: “From my experience, the digital reputation of a company is important. Our hyperconnected community made it easier for consumers to voice their opinions in favour or against our products and services. “This forced us, marketers and companies, to focus beyond closing sales and running campaigns, and to know our end-users, put customers’ experiences in the middle, and involve them in our decision-making process. Most importantly, in this era of quick postings and virality, it is important for brands to be very honest and be excellent listeners.” With the theme “Secure Your Digital Reputation”, the Cybersecurity Weekend explored the impact of social media activities on individuals’ personal identities and companies’ brand perceptions. The annual media conference, which was held online for the first time, was attended by Kaspersky’s elite researcher, an industry expert, and journalists from the 12 APAC countries	
The ecosystem of cybersecurity products in Việt Nam has clearly developed thanks to the strong support from the Ministry of Information and Communications (MIC). Currently, the rate of domestic information security products has reached 91 per cent and will be 100 per cent by 2021. The information was released at the International Conference and Exhibition on Việt Nam Information Security Day 2020 held in Hà Nội yesterday. The rate increased by 1.7 times from the previous year and 18 times higher than that of 2015. In addition, the revenue from local cybersecurity products increased from 18 per cent in 2015 to 39 per cent in 2019 and 45 per cent in 2020. The rate is expected to continue rising in the following years. Speaking at the event, minister of Information and Communications Nguyễn Mạnh Hùng said the mission of the IT and network security sector is to protect the country’s prosperity in cyberspace. The responsibility is on the shoulders of cybersecurity enterprises. This is also the responsibility of the Việt Nam Information Security Association (VNISA). “To complete the mission well, we have to master the information security product ecosystem. We must build a strong cybersecurity industry,” he said. To ensure the safety of the country’s IT systems, products and services at the highest level, Việt Nam has to have competent experts in this field. Statistics from VNISA showed that in addition to the growth in terms of types of products, the revenue from cyber security has also continuously increased in recent years from VNĐ400 billion in 2016 to VNĐ1.5 trillion in 2019. The revenue is expected to reach VNĐ1.9 trillion this year. “Revenue from cybersecurity products rose in 2020. The result shows that Viet Nam’s cybersecurity ecosystem has seen strong development,” said a VNISA representative. Nguyễn Thành Phúc, head of the ministry’s Authority of Information Security said cyber security with “Make in Vietnam” technologies is a key factor in national digital transformation. The event, themed “Cybersecurity Ecosystem Make in Vietnam – Key Success Factor for National Digital Transformation,” aimed at connecting cyber security businesses, units using cyber security products and services, and policymaking agencies so as to better handle issues related to cyber security of all individuals, organisations and businesses using Vietnamese people’s solutions, he said. He also emphasised the need for relevant agencies, organisations, enterprises and associations to work in training more experts on cyber security and safety. Representatives from many businesses shared opinions on issues involved in digital platforms and solutions available in Việt Nam. They said that Việt Nam is lacking senior experts on cyber security and safety. David Soldani, a Huawei ICT Security Expert within the ASIA Pacific region said 5G is expected to provide reliable low-latency connectivity for remote and intelligent control of robotics platforms and critical infrastructure such as electricity, water, gas, ports and transportation. Therefore, any 5G system failure that could happen would cause serious harm. 5G technologies will be applied to different sectors including internet of things (IoT), self-driving cars and healthcare. Most of the threats and challenges facing 5G security are the same as those facing 4G security, he said. He added that 5G security requires co-operation in standards, equipment and implementation. All parties in the industry chain are responsible for their own confidentiality. In order to minimise cybersecurity risks, providers must prioritise network security fully. On the day, the organising board announced “Make in Vietnam” Cloud platforms. Developing and mastering a cybersecurity product ecosystem serving e-government, smart city and the national important information system is a task assigned by the Government to the MIC.	
"Ensuring cybersecurity is considered a key factor for a successful and sustainable digital transformation, and at the same time, an inseparable part of digital transformation, said Nguyễn Đức Hiển, vice chairman of the Central Economic Commission, at a cybersecurity summit. The Vietnam Security Summit 2020 was held in Hà Nội on Tuesday, endorsed by the Central Economic Commission and the Ministry of Information and Communications. Featuring the theme 'Cybersecurity in the AI and Big data era', the summit shed light on the latest security trends and considerations for digital governments and modern-day enterprises, including national critical infrastructure defence, next-gen enterprise cyber protection and customers’ data assurance. Digital transformation had led to an increase in the number of internet of things devices and generated a large amount of data, said Hiển. Data had become an important resource of the country and of each organisation and individual, along with that, the risks of information and data theft and destruction were increasing, Hiển added. Cyber ​​attackers also exploited the strengths of artificial intelligence and big data in cyber-attack techniques and malware would become smarter with phishing technology based on artificial intelligence, he noted. ""Reality shows that we are facing increasingly dangerous and sophisticated cyber attacks. Each agency, organisation, business and user must always be ready to respond to threats in cyberspace,” said Hiển. Sharing the same viewpoint, Colonel Nguyễn Đăng Lực, vice chairman of the Government Cipher Committee, said cyber-attacks and crime had increased recently to steal data, State confidential information and destroy information systems. More and more cybercriminals and reactionary organisations had been established and operated sophisticatedly, causing serious consequences, threatening social order and safety, political stability and national security, he said From the perspective of the Ministry of Information and Communications, Nguyễn Khắc Lịch, deputy director of the Authority of Information Security under the Ministry of Information and Communication, said the current risk of information security was very big, which affected the entire economy. “Cyber ​​attacks are getting more sophisticated, more fierce, more dangerous,” said Lịch. Also at the summit, the representative of the Authority of Information Security reviewed some outstanding results in the work of ensuring information security in Việt Nam. Specifically, Việt Nam's ranking of the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) in accordance with the assessment of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) had positive changes last year. The country ranked 50 out of 193 countries, 11th in Asia-Pacific and fifth in ASEAN. Sharing about the orientation to implement cybersecurity, Lịch said ""If we want our country to become a powerful country in cybersecurity, in the group of 30 leading countries in GCI index by 2030, we need to focus on development in accordance with five main pillars including legal, technical, organising, capacity building, and co-operation"". Along with that, Lịch also raised other major orientations in ensuring information security in the coming time, which are ensuring information safety in digital transformation; protecting users on cyberspace, promoting the implementation of the four-class model in the organisations, and identifying human as the main orientation of ensuring information safety."	
Vietnamese Deputy Minister of Public Security Lương Tam Quang affirmed Việt Nam’s commitment to actively and responsively taking part in ASEAN co-operative mechanisms on cybersecurity. He was speaking at a teleconference of ASEAN ministers on cybersecurity on Wednesday. Việt Nam recognises the need and importance of building responsible codes of conduct online to maintain healthy, safe cyberspace and ensure information security amid the huge changes of digital transformation, he said. The Vietnamese Government has assigned the Ministry of Public Security to finalise a legal framework on cybersecurity consistent with regional and international standards to facilitate tightening cybersecurity, cybercrime prevention and control in Việt Nam as well as international co-operation, he said. Việt Nam has implemented the 'National Digital Transformation Programme towards 2025, with a vision to 2030' with the aim of making the country among 50 leading e-government countries. “In this digital transformation process, network information security and safety is the key factor in creating a safe environment for digital transformation,” he said. The Ministry of Public Security has focused on protecting critical information infrastructures through promoting training, improving qualifications and capacity of the specialised security teams as well as conducting research to develop and apply advanced software and technology. The ministry has also paid attention to international co-operation with countries inside and outside the region to respond to attacks on information infrastructures, he said. At the meeting, delegates from ASEAN countries agreed on the spirit of working together to address cybersecurity challenges in a comprehensive and sustainable way. Secretary-General of ASEAN Dato Lim Jock Hoi said promoting regional cybersecurity co-operation has become important and served as a driving force for member countries to complete the overall ASEAN post-COVID-19 recovery. S Iswaran, Singaporean Minister for Communications and Information and Minister-in-charge of Cybersecurity, applauded ASEAN member states for their steadfast focus on strengthening cybersecurity, domestically and in collaboration with regional and international partners. Singapore is ready to work with all ASEAN partners to safeguard cyberspace, he said. To enhance security for operational technology (OT) and the internet of things, Iswaran announced that the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore will establish an OT Cybersecurity Expert Panel and launch the Cybersecurity Labelling Scheme. The ASEAN ministerial meeting on cybersecurity was held within the framework of Singapore International Cyber Week 2020 which is taking place from October 5 to 9. ASEAN senior officials’ meeting Việt Nam, as ASEAN Chair 2020, is preparing for the 37th ASEAN Summit to take place in November, said Vietnamese Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Nguyễn Quốc Dũng at the virtual ASEAN Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM) on Wednesday. The Vietnamese diplomat highly appreciated the co-operation of ASEAN member countries with Việt Nam in the role of ASEAN Chair 2020 and proposed more co-ordination of ASEAN member countries and agencies to complete priorities this year, including initiatives in response to COVID-19. Discussing co-operation within the bloc, delegates expressed their satisfaction at the outcomes since early this year. Chaired by Việt Nam, the ASEAN Community building process has been actively implemented, with ASEAN's initiatives in 2020 on schedule. A mid-term review of the ASEAN Community Vision Blueprint 2025’s implementation on all three pillars is being finalised. ASEAN agreed to build the Hanoi Declaration on the post-2025 ASEAN Community Vision and report the review of the ASEAN Charter’s implementation. Member countries also believed sub-regional development plays an important role in community building. Therefore, ASEAN should co-ordinate co-operation in the sub-regions. The ASEAN SOM reaffirmed ASEAN's viewpoints on the South China Sea (called East Sea by Việt Nam) issues which received consensus at the 36th ASEAN Summit and 53rd ASEAN Foreign Ministers Meeting. It highlighted the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, security, stability, safety and freedom of navigation and aviation in the sea. The countries committed to fully and effectively implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the East Sea (DOC), and work with China to soon complete the negotiation of an effective and pragmatic code of conduct in the East Sea (COC), ensuring its consistency with international laws, including the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). ASEAN senior officials also urged health officials to finalise the ASEAN code of conduct on responding to public health emergencies. They showed consensus on building an ASEAN travel corridor in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the meeting, ASEAN member countries stressed the importance of ASEAN's central role and agreed to support Việt Nam’s proposal to issue the ASEAN+3 Declaration on Economic and Financial Self-Reliance to respond to emerging challenges.	
Cybercriminals have actively attacked small and medium businesses (SMBs) in Southeast Asia this year, according to global cybersecurity company Kaspersky. It said its anti-phishing system prevented 834,993 phishing attempts against companies with 50-250 employees, a 56 per cent increase from the same period last year. The statistics were collated from Kaspersky’s solutions for SMBs using Windows, Mac OS, and Linux. Yeo Siang Tiong, general manager for Southeast Asia, Kaspersky, said: “The financial toll combined with the urgent need to adapt to a forced remote working arrangement without enough preparation undoubtedly put the IT security of SMBs on the edge. “At the same time, cybercriminals are unethically piggybacking on the current chaos to increase their attacks’ success rate through social engineering tactics like phishing. Our data revealed such attempts are increasing as our technology foiled more phishing attempts this year than in 2019.” Phishing is one of the most flexible types of social engineering attack, as it can be disguised in many ways and used for different purposes. Social engineering attacks, or tricking the mind, exploit human emotions to victimise users online. Cybercriminals are also incorporating topics and “hot phrases” related to COVID-19 into their content, increasing the chances of their infected links or malicious attachments getting opened. The damage ranges from hacking companies’ networks to stealing confidential data like personally identifiable information, financial credentials and even corporate secrets. Besides, it is known that phishing attacks, particularly those with malicious links or attachments, are commonly used as launch pads for targeted attacks on organisations. Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Việt Nam registered an increased number of fraudulent emails blocked by Kaspersky in Q1 compared to the same period last year. Number of phishing attempts against small and medium-sized businesses in Southeast Asia blocked by Kaspersky Anti-Phishing System in the first quarter of the year. — Photo courtesy of Kaspersky “Small and medium enterprises form the backbone of SEA’s growing economy, contributing immensely to both gross domestic product and employment. “It is clear that governments across the region are aware of this as each has formulated different ways to help the sector during this challenging period. “For our part, we are currently offering our select solutions for free to help SMBs and even the healthcare industry fend off escalating cyberattacks against them,” Yeo said. It is giving six months’ free licences for Kaspersky Security for Microsoft Office 365, and, in collaboration with Area9 Lyceum, has also prepared a 20-30-minute free online course on how to adapt to working safely from home. Besides, to avoid being hacked by cybercriminals through phishing,  Kaspersky experts suggested SMBs should teach employees the basics of cybersecurity, regularly remind them about how to deal with sensitive data, enforce the use of legitimate software and download from official sources, back up essential data, and regularly update IT equipment and applications.	
President Trần Đại Quang cleared up citizens’ concerns over the controversial draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units and the cybersecurity law in yesterday’s meeting with voters in HCM City’s Districts 1, 3 and 4. Regarding the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units, President Quang said that this is a major policy of the Party in many tenures with the target of building breakthrough institutions with outstanding incentives that are competitive enough to attract investment, on par with the region and the world. This will in turn help to create motivation for the growth of special units as well as economic zones and the entire country, boosting economic development and ensuring sovereign independence, defence and security. It is an important bill which institutionalises the Party’s policy and realises the 2013 Constitution’s regulations on special administrative – economic units formed by the National Assembly, the State leader said. However, this is a complicated law, he said, adding that many of its regulations on mechanisms and policies have breakthroughs not only in the apparatus organisation but also in development orientations in the context of international integration and the developing regional and international situation. The President agreed with voters’ opinions, saying that the draft law should be considered carefully before it is submitted to the National Assembly for approval. For the Law on Cybersecurity, he stressed that the promulgation of the law is to meet demands for cybersecurity in ensuring national security, maintaining social order and safety, and fighting and preventing plots of hostile and reactionary forces who make use of the cyberspace to infringe upon national security, sabotage the national unity, incite demonstrations and disturb order on cyberspace. The law also aims to stop, respond to and address consequences of cyber-attacks, terrorism and wars, as well as protect important information on national security and eliminate those who conduct cyber espionage, and post secret information on cyberspace. The State leader affirmed that the law, once becoming effective on January 1, 2019, will help create a legal foundation to meet the need for cybersecurity in protecting national security and ensuring social order and safety. Mentioning cases of social disturbance, property destruction and resistance to on-duty officers in several localities some days ago as extreme protesters took to the streets to oppose the two said bills, President Quang expressed his agreement with voters’ opinions on punishments imposed by relevant agencies. He stressed the necessity to intensify disseminations to help the public understand more about the Party and State’s policies related to the draft Law on Special Administrative-Economic Units so that they are not incited by evil-doers and opportunists, and do not conduct extremist acts or legal violations. Regarding the fight against corruption, President Quang affirmed the Party and State’s consistent policy of combating corruption crimes while also considering the responsibility of Party Committees and heads of agencies where corruption occurs and those involved in corruption. Economic cases must be considered carefully and handled in line with the Party’s regulations and the State’s laws, he added.	
The controversial cybersecurity law was passed by the National Assembly (NA) on June 12 with 86.86 per cent approval. On the sidelines, NA deputies talk to An Ninh Thủ Đô (Capital Security) newspaper on how the bill won’t harm Constitution-mandated civil rights or initiate mass surveillance. The subjects of the bill are criminals, not common people, they stressed. Lưu Bình Nhưỡng, permanent member of the National Assembly’s Committee for Social Affairs: What is your take on the recently adopted cybersecurity law that has caused heated debate in the country? The law was passed with a high approval rate. Several internet websites and forums in recent times have slandered the purpose of the bill and opposed the Party’s direction, stoking unreasonable public anger against National Assembly deputies like me. This has further consolidated us lawmakers’ conviction on the need to approve the bill. You are saying that recent developments have influenced your decision to pass the cybersecurity bill? There was an explosion of toxic content and information in recent days. My own Facebook profile was also tagged in posts sharing content that I find disagreeable. I believe NA deputies are particularly perceptive and the wave of misleading information on the internet just fuels their determination to pass the bill, especially those who felt ambivalent before. You are known as being quite vocal in your criticism of the draft cybersecurity law, do you think many will be surprised with your ‘change of heart?’ I have reservations about certain articles of the draft law, it’s totally normal. Those are the opinions of an NA member while the draft law was being developed; it’s not that I oppose the law. What drives me and other lawmakers to quickly introduce this law is that it will help the fight against new types of criminals and ensure the country’s stability. Many people are worried that the cybersecurity law will curtail freedom of speech, and that is the source of opposition to the law. What do you think about this? I think the concerns are not justified. The civil rights law has already stated clearly that acts constituting violations of other people’s honour and dignity are violations of their civil rights. When violations of civil rights happen on a larger scale and pose serious dangers to society, then criminal intents are considered and fall under the jurisdiction of the penal code. The cybersecurity law simply gives authorities a tool to manage security issues in the cyberspace, it’s not meant to suppress freedom of speech. Such interpretations are a total misunderstanding. So what you are saying is that people should not be too concerned? I affirm that the cybersecurity law’s targets are cybercrimes and cybercriminals, not the people. I have several times expressed my line of thinking to the NA National Defence and Security Committee. My stance has always been that the cybersecurity law must have its highest priority set on the suppression of hi-tech crimes; issues regarding social order and security are the concerns of several other laws, not just the cybersecurity law, as I have said before. Many said that some vague provisions in the cybersecurity law would cause difficulties for internet users, how do you comment on this? In my opinion, no law is perfect. Most laws must be reviewed some time after implementation for adjustments. The birth of a new law is a response to social demand. I myself was not entirely convinced before, but homeland security and the country’s interests must be prioritised above all else. Cybercrimes have become extremely sophisticated and I believe every deputy and every person would agree that the country’s existence and security is a number one priority. As long as the country remains, we still have chances to fix what’s wrong and become better. Major General Đặng Ngọc Nghĩa, permanent member of the National Assembly’s National Defence and Security Committee Major General Đặng Ngọc Nghĩa, permanent member of the National Assembly’s National Defence and Security Committee: What are your comments on the passing of the cybersecurity law? I think that with the current situation, all countries are managing their cyberspace and cybersecurity though methods may differ from one another. In Việt Nam, most of our information equipment and devices are imported, which greatly influences the provisions of the law. In recent times, we have made certain progress in the field of cybersecurity, but not enough, with many cases of exploiting loopholes in information networks to conduct anti-State propaganda and disrupt economic and airway activities. Many experts have said that the cybersecurity law will mean internet users can easily be monitored and manipulated. Do you think these concerns are justified? Civil rights are provided for in the Constitution, whereby the people are not monitored. However, Party and Government agencies, as well major economic institutions such as airport authorities and banks hold critical information related to national security, in these cases the network will be monitored, but not the individuals. For example, Enterprise A under the management of a certain ministry uses network infrastructure to disseminate Anti-State propaganda or slandering information, they would receive a warning. The security officials would step in to investigate when the managing agency of that enterprise submits a request for such action. When the law is introduced and mechanisms take effect, we will be able to better manage the cyberspace and make it a healthy environment.	
The National Assembly on Tuesday morning passed the Law on Cybersecurity, with majority voting yes to the controversial bill. Four hundred and twenty-three deputies voted to approve the bill, accounting for 86.86 per cent of the those present at the assembly hall, while only 15 voted against it. Twenty-eight deputies abstained. The law will go into effect on January 1, 2019. The law requires all internet-related service providers, regardless of whether they are foreign or domestic companies, to open a representative office and maintain a customer database in servers based in Việt Nam in exchange for authorisation to operate legally in the country. The Ministry of Public Security, which drafted the law, will have the jurisdiction to examine the information network of any organisation or company when a breach of national security or a threat to social order is detected. According to a report on the law released by the National Assembly’s Standing Committee, it is feasible to require foreign providers like Google and Facebook to open a data centre in Việt Nam. While it would increase business costs, the report said it was a “necessary regulation to meet Việt Nam’s cybersecurity demands.” The report said the physical presence of foreign providers in the country would help improve services for Vietnamese customers and ensure the efficient resolution of any disruption to their services. It would also allow authorities to easily oversee the business activities of those companies and to more effectively handle any breaches to cybersecurity	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
dai-bieu-quoc-hoi-tranh-luan-ve-viec-ban-hanh-luat-an-ninh-mang	
		
